THE GRUM

[PART 1: INTRODUCTION]

A relatively young race, the grum are a civilization of long-snouted underground humanoids living in the caverns.  The grum are hostile to the dwarves and most of their allies.

[PART 2: NATURE]

Grum are strange creatures, roughly the size of a human.  They have no eyes, instead relying on smell, touch, and their sense of hearing.
The grum smell and eat with their snouts, which protrude from their heads like long and downturned noses.  They are covered in a fur coat for warmth,
which varies in color from black to various shades of brown and even white.  

[PART 3: SOCIETY]

The grum are a generally peaceful race, but have developed technologies to defend themselves from the hostile denizens of the underground, including the shedim.  The grum do not 
build elegant fortifications, but are more than capable of taking up defensive positions and settling into large colonies that can rival the populations of cities on the surface.
The grum are talented metalworkers and miners, but are also fiercely protective of their homelands.  Grum society is organized with a reverence for elders, regardless of caste 
or colony.  In a dispute between an elder grum and a younger grum, it is customary for the younger grum to back down in all but the most extreme situtations.  The grum communicate 
using their own language, which relies heavily on the resonant sounds from their snouts.  Since the grum cannot see each other, fur color is meaningless in their society.

[PART 4: BATTLE TACTICS]

The grum are fairly organized in battle, using techniques and formations undoubtedly developed to combat the shedim and forgotten beasts of the depths.  Grum squadrons are often 
led by a single elder or an accomplished young upstart.  In the case of the latter, the young squad leader is often a leader only in name, with the grum instead referring to the 
eldest member of the squad for direction regardless of rank.  This would seem to be a handicap, but does not seem to confuse the grum nearly as much as their enemies, who often 
have difficulty identifying their leadership on the battlefield.

[PART 5: DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS]

Besides the shedim, which are considered to be predators by the grum, little is known about grum relations to most of the surface races, save for the dwarves.
Up until recent years, the grum have only had regular contact with the moroii, whom they do not communicate with, but instead consider part of their natural 
environment.  As civilizations on the surface have risen and begun to conflict with each other more violently, the dwarves have begun mining the underground caverns for resources, 
and in doing so, unknowingly encroached on grum territory.  The grum just want to be left alone, and consider the dwarves to be destructors of their environment and bringers of 
chaos to their order.  Mostly because of the as-yet unbroken language barrier between dwarves and grum, there have not been any successful diplomatic advances towards peace.