LEGENDS OF FORLORN REALMS

Version 0.18e

-----

[CR0] CREDITS AND LEGAL MUMBO JUMBO

This modification was designed and written by narhiril of the bay12 forums, for Dwarf Fortress.  Please do not
redistribute this mod in its entirety or any individual features of this mod without consent.  As many of the included
features of this mod are inspired by other high fantasy universes and real-life technologies, some resemblance to other
mods is both inevitable and entirely coincidental (except for those mentioned below).

You MAY:
-Link the thread and download page to anyone you wish.
-Play this mod to your heart's content.
-Modify any component of this mod, as long as these modifications are not publicly distributed.

You may NOT:
-Claim this mod as your own work.
-Re-upload this mod in part or in its entirety without my express consent.
-Distribute this mod in part or in its entirety via hard copy without my express consent.

I would like to give special thanks to the following:

From Bay12 forums:

-Ironhand, who taught me everything I know about graphics in DF.
-Kipi, who graciously provided permissions, raws for the display case, and reaction raws for the foundry (block factory).
-elf-fondling human, who graciously allowed me to include the pegasoi in this mod and provided the graphics and raws for them.
-darkflagrance, TomiTapio, and Deon, whose Fortress Defense and Genesis mods provided me with a frame of reference when writing my own raws.
-Jeoshua, early bug hunter.

-In no particular order, Carn, Pan, thatkid, TehNoob, trees, Putnam, Patchouli, 73, Imp, astinax, Meph, hugo_the_dwarf, Atlan, darkflagrance (again) and countless others for 
suggestions and feedback.

-Kweri and Alem for help with early bug hunting.
-Pan (again) for help with testing zingers.
-Ult1mara for publicity through his YouTube channel.
-nuklearpower for his whip modifications.
-Reelyanoob, for the French language file.
-bdog for allowing me to use his wheelbarrow workshops and reactions (now obsolete, but still a big thanks).
-An unknown author for the Latin language file.
-Putnam (again) for assembling the material properties for experimental metals raws.
-Urist Da Vinci for the custom mill reactions.
-Sphalerite, for the rare animal variant plug-in.
-hermano for the custom brew reaction template.
-monk321654 for the giant cannon beetle raws.
-peterix for DFHack, Dwarf Engineer and his team for DT, and any other tool developers (these helped immensely with testing).
-Ironhand, Wormslayer, and NW_Kohaku for the graphics set used in the pre-installed versions.
-Toady One and Threetoe, of course, who made this game possible.
-all others who answered questions during my time of exploration with modding DF.


Others:

-Josh and Joann, the food service people who made me burritos while I worked on the early versions of this mod.
-My bestest friend Helen, who taught me how to do digital art (and I still suck at it, but at least I can make something now).

Questions and comments can be directed to narhiril (bay12forums), or x_narhiril_x@yahoo.com (I check this every couple of days).


-----

[TC0] CONTENTS:

[CR0] - credits and legal mumbo jumbo.
[TC0] - this table of contents.
[KI0] - known issues.
[IN0] - installation header.
	[IN1] - notes about balance
	[IN2] - basic installation instructions
[NM0] - new metals/minerals section header.
	[NM1] - mithril [0.05a]
	[NM2] - tungsten
	[NM3] - iovium and abyssal eyes
	[NM4] - vanadium and damascus steel
	[NM5] - shards of the void
	[NM6] - ether
	[NM7] - lustrum
	[NM8] - orichalcum
	[NM9] - hadrine
	[NMA] - experimental materials
	[NMB] - rift warden's essence
[WA0] - new weapons section header.
	[WA1] - the dwarven javelin thrower
	[WA2] - javelins (ammo)
	[WA3] - two-handed weapons
	[WA4] - other combat tweaks
	[WA5] - "mood weapons"
	[WA6] - weapons upgrades
	[WA7] - the magnetic dart launcher and magnetic darts
[AR0] - new armor section header.
	[AR1] - shields
	[AR2] - body armor
	[AR3] - leg armor
	[AR4] - gloves and boots
	[AR5] - helms
	[AR6] - clothing
[CV0] - civilizations section header.
	[CV1] - the meowkin
	[CV2] - the bog trolls
	[CV3] - the voidwalkers
	[CV4] - the lizardmen
	[CV5] - the nephilim
	[CV6] - the moroii
	[CV7] - the shedim
	[CV8] - the vanguard
[FC0] - friendly creatures section header.
	[FC1] - tortoises
	[FC2] - pegasoi (by elf-fondling human)
	[FC3] - cave oysters
	[FC4] - will o' wisps
	[FC5] - pigeons
	[FC6] - carbuncles
	[FC7] - jackalopes
	[FC8] - sabre-toothed tigers
	[FC9] - dwarven savants
	[FCA] - zingers
	[FCB] - ankylosaurs
	[FCC] - watchers
[DC0] - deadly creatures section header.
	[DC1] - the devourer of the depths
	[DC2] - wyverns
	[DC3] - leviathans
	[DC4] - damascus sentinels
	[DC5] - deep wolves
	[DC6] - behemoths
	[DC7] - aatxes
	[DC8] - masters of locusts
	[DC9] - banshees
	[DCA] - land movers
	[DCB] - incubi
	[DCC] - manticores
	[DCD] - megalania
	[DCE] - jagged crystal dragons
	[DCF] - giant cannon beetle
	[DCX] - other creatures
[NP0] - new plants section header.
	[NP1] - bluebells and dwarven whiskey
	[NP2] - the thyme has come
	[NP3] - widow's tear
	[NP4] - tonicbriar
	[NP5] - voracious maw and atrophic bliss
	[NP6] - winding spire
	[NP7] - tatterstone's buckle
	[NP8] - pygmy lime
	[NP9] - prism star
	[NPA] - shankweed
	[NPB] - vine and drops of xanadu
	[NPC] - herald's horn
	[NPD] - courage oak
	[NPE] - mousebulb
	[NPF] - white anise
[NB0] - changes to dwarven nobility header.
	[NB1] - the champion
	[NB2] - the dungeon master
	[NB3] - the local legend
	[NB4] - the high priest
	[NB5] - the successor
[SC0] - dwarven science and construction section header.
	[SC1] - the foundry (by Kipi)
	[SC2] - the display case (by Kipi)
	[SC3] - dwarven mechanical advances - the "tech tree"
	[SC4] - the crematorium
	[SC5] - the loading and unloading stations
[RT0] - dwarven ritual and spirituality section header.
	[RT1] - the dwarven "ritual tree"
	[RT2] - ritual units
[HB0] - hybrid buildings section header.
	[HB1] - the fishing pond
	[HB2] - the temple of fire
	[HB3] - the exotic cheesery
[OT0] - other threats section header.
	[OT1] - internal threats
[WC0] - weather changes section header.
	[WC1] - dust storms
	[WC2] - freezing rain
	[WC3] - void mist
[RC0] - manual compatability fixes header.
	[RC1] - changes to the entity_default file for proper functionality. 
	[RC2] -	changes to the item_weapon file for proper functionality.
	[RC3] - changes to the creature_standard file for proper functionality.
[PQ0] - FAQ about mood weapon attributes.


------

[KI0] KNOWN ISSUES

The foundry is known to cause all of the stones that it can produce blocks from to be listed as economic stones by default.  This is annoying, as you will have to
manually change them back to mundane stones in the stone menu, but does not otherwise affect gameplay.  There is currently no fix for this.

Hostile races will not fight amongst each other (except for goblins) outside of legends mode.  This is currently impossible for me to fix given the current engine.

Turning temperature off will cause a fair number of this mod's functions to work improperly.

Mineral scarcity values higher than 300 will make a number of features of this mod less common or accessible than intended.

This mod is compatible with any mod that does not modify stock raws.  For compatibility mods that only modify one or two stock raws, check the compatibility section.
Unfortunately, this means that at this time, LFR is not compatible with total conversion or major overhaul mods like Genesis or Corrosion, though it is compatible with 
Fortress Defense.  This is unlikely to change in the near future.

------




[IN0] INSTALLATION:




[IN1] Notes:

A few new races (some friendly, some not so much) are included as a feature of this mod.  They are included by default, but can
be easily removed by removing their associated entity and creature files (all should be clearly labelled).

If you elect to remove any of these new races (particularly the more hostile ones), the game may become considerably
easier for you.  The new features of the mod are meant to expand and diversify the dwarven civiliation, and the new races are
meant to prevent these additions from becoming overly powerful.  Yes, your dwarves may be able to hack apart goblin ambushes
a little more effortlessly with this mod, but wait until your fortress gets rushed by bog trolls or a damascus sentinel strolls
in from below.  If you live long enough, you might even find yourself on the recieving end of challenges far greater and full of
surprises that no kobold abductor could hope to match.

Suffice to say, certain races won't take kindly to your amassment of riches, booze, and power, and some of these races
have considerably nastier toys than your average goblin mischief maker.

Much of this mod was tested alongside the Fortress Defense mod.  While it does not include or require/use
any of Fortress Defense's features or races,  I have written the file names and code so as not to conflict with anything 
in Fortress Defense.  This mod can safely be installed on top of FD, or vice versa.  For those who haven't checked out 
darkflagrance's Fortress Defense, I highly recommend it.

If you downloaded the raw-only release, only use the graphics and object folders from the folder that corresponds to your graphics set.  Tile numbers vary 
greatly across graphics sets, so if your walls look like mushrooms or your mushrooms look like dragons, chances are that you used the wrong folder, or I made a terrible
mistake with the tiles (which is unlikely but possible - if this is the case, please notify me via forum or email).

This mod was tested with a mineral scarcity setting of 100 or "everywhere," and is designed to be played with a mineral scarcity setting of 300 or less.
Playing with higher scarcity settings will make metals for the tech tree (especially orichalcum) very much more difficult to come by than was intended.  
I know, this is stated in like 5 places, but it's really important.


[IN2] The Actual Installation:

Overwrite "entity_default.txt", "creature_standard.txt", and "item_weapon.txt" with the provided versions.

If you are using another mod that already modifies one or both of these files, you can still use this mod, 
but it will require some manual file editing on your part.  If this is the case, see section [RC1], [RC2] and/or [RC3].


If you have overwritten the default files with those provided, you can safely SKIP sections [RC1], [RC2] and [RC3].




------


[NM0] METALS/MINERALS

A few new minerals, ores and alloys with several goals: to weaken the necessity for Dwarves to embark on flux,
to add more options for effective blunt weapons, and to bridge the massive power gap between steel and "cotton candy."
Some of these minerals will be also be used for some more... unorthodox uses.


[NM1] Mithril:

Mithril, previously released as a stand-alone mini-mod, is back with only minor changes.
Mithril in its mineral form, "raw mithril," can be found as small clusters within any igneous rock,
or as the rare mithril vein within obsidian.  Mithril, in its smelted form, is brittle and useless for
just about everything, but can be refined at a smelter, taking four bars of low-grade mithril and 
producing a single bar of mithril in its pure form, which is comparable to steel in effectiveness,
but slightly lighter and without the prerequisite of flux stone.  Mithril is a brilliant red color.
It has a material value of 20 (low-grade) or 70 (refined).

As of v0.15b, mithril can be extracted into strands at a craftsdwarf's workshop.

Changes to Mithril from v0.04b:

A few changes to wording.  Items made from impure mithril are called "low-grade mithril (item)." Reactions have been changed 
to "smelt mithril ore" and "refine low-grade mithril bars."

Mithril's density has been lowered from 7850 (identical to steel) to 5850.  This will make mithril armor and weapons lighter,
and is meant to differentiate mithril from the new damascus steel (discussed later).



[NM2] Tungsten:

TUngsten is an uncommon metal found on Earth as a mineral called "wolframite," from which it derives
its IUPAC symbol on the periodic table ("W").  Wolframite is a natural compound of iron, manganese, and
tungsten, which can be broken down into its constituent parts by sufficient heat (magma forge) or in the
presence of carbon (coke) at a lower relative temperature.  Manganese is another metal I hope to include for
alloying purposes later.

Wolframite occurs naturally in a variety of minerals - most notably quartz.  In this mod, attempting to 
find some balance between rarity and real-life occurance, wolframite is found as veins within quartz and mica,
and as small clusters within microcline and orthoclase.  Smelting wolframite will produce a tungsten bar, and
has an additional (10%) chance of producing an iron bar as well.

Tungsten is notable for its density and its hardness.  It is magma-safe and makes a better bludgeoning weapon than
silver, though it isn't very effective for blades or armor.  Tungsten is used in modern-day applications for its hard and 
heat-resistant properties, including lightbulb filaments, kinetic projectiles (as a non-pyrophoric substitute for depleted uranium), 
and in alloys such as tungsten carbide.  Tungsten carbide can be used effectively in blades but is, unfortunately, beyond 
the technology level of the dwarves to synthesize (it requires molten tungsten, which requires a temperature of
over 16000 urists, whereas magma is only 12000).

Tungsten is meant to be a metal used for bludgeoning weapons and as a moderate value (15) decoration, as well
as in magma-safe components.




[NM3] Iovium and Abyssal Eyes:

Prepare for some !!SCIENCE!!

Iovium is meant to be the end-game metal for bludgeoning weapons, from the Latin word for Zeus ("Iovis").  Iovium is a fictional 
name given to a theoretical element, unbihexium (element 126), which is of interest in the scientific community due to its position 
right in the middle of the theorized "island of stability," where the number of protons and neutrons are though to be such that the shape 
of the nucleus will be spherical and thus, will be much less radioactive than other superheavy elements.  The properties of Iovium are
a combination of theorized and fictional numbers.  In Dwarf Fortress, it is roughly 5 times the density of silver, and carries a molar
mass of 310000 (310.000, based on the most stable theoretical isotope).  The half-life of Unbihexium-310 has been theorized as anywhere from
a few minutes to millions of years, and the only attempt to synthesize it in a laboratory thus far has been unsuccessful.  In this representation,
I am assuming that its half life is long enough and its chain of decay harmless enough not to cause any syndromes.  In Dwarf Fortress, it is simply
a super-heavy (though not nearly as heavy as slade) weapon material meant for hammers, mauls, and a few new weapons (see weapons section).

Iovium ore ("iovite") can be found only as small clusters within bauxite, granite, cinnabar, and jet.  Because it is very rare,
Iouvium carries a material value of 100 - second only to the 300 of "cotton candy."  This is meant to limit importing of large
quantities of the metal from the Dwarven caravan.  Iovium clusters sometimes contain vibrant gemstones called "abyssal eyes," which
carry a material value of 150 - the highest value of any gemstone.

Smelting iovite requires an additional unit of fuel, for both regular and magma forges.

Unlike tungsten, iovium is not magma safe.



[NM4] Vanadium and Damascus Steel:

Meant to be an upgrade to steel, damascus steel is inspired by the lost art of middle-eastern swordsmiths.  It is characterized by the unusual
wave-like patterns contained within it - a byproduct of the forging process.

Examination of weapons forged from damascus steel under electron microscopes has revealed that the forging process was actually capable of creating 
nanocarbon rods within the blades. While the original art of production has been lost, damascus steel is thought to be an alloy of high-carbon 
steel and vanadium, forged in a crucible and hammered and folded extensively.  In this mod, damascus steel is an alloy of one part steel, one part coke, 
and one part vanadium.

Vanadium is found as an ore called patronite (which is found in quartz) or as ferrovanadium, a natural alloy with iron, within gabbro.  Smelting
patronite will yield a bar of vanadium.  Smelting ferrovanadium will yield a bar of vanadium and a bar of iron.  Vanadium is magma-safe, but an
unfit material for weapons, armor, and ammunition.  It can be used for low value furniture or craft production, or for damascus steel production.

Damascus steel is magma-safe.  It is slightly more dense than steel, but also stronger (~20%) and more valuable.  Its material value is 45 - 
ever so slightly greater than the sum of its parts.



[NM5] - Shards of the Void:

Shards of the Void are small, semi-organic slivers which compose a metal of unknown origin called "voidshard".  No ore of voidshard is known to exist, 
and its properties are inconsistent with any alloys of any known metals.  As such, it is impossible for dwarves to obtain or create this metal directly.  
The only confirmed weapons and armor made of voidshard are in the hands of the voidwalkers (discussed in civilizations section).  How these unusual
beings came to possess this material is veiled in secrecy - what is known is that the voidwalkers are not afraid to strike down anyone of any
race who would attempt to glean their secrets.  Due to the magnificent properties of their metal of choice, they are able to do this with
unparalleled efficiency.

Dwarves can not acquire voidshard without defeating a voidwalker extermination attempt, which is a herculean task in and of itself.  Voidshard
salvaged from the battlefield can be melted down into voidshard bars, which can be used to forge weapons and armor of obscene power and value.
Though adamantine forges better blades and armor, voidshard is a relatively close second.  The glimmering black armor and weapons of a voidwalker 
extermination force are feared by even the most powerful of creatures and civilizations.

Voidshard, for all of its mythical properties, is not magma safe.  In fact, it violently explodes in extreme temperatures.  The otherworldy vapors
produced in this reaction are as deadly and feared as any weapon.


[NM6] - Ether

Ether is a fabled substance thought to exist in the space between the known world and the realm of the gods.  Ether has supernatural properties.  It is
the second lightest material in the game - only about four times the density of adamantine, and able to hold an edge not quite as sharp, but statistically 
comparable to voidshard.  Ether cannot be mined - it is produced as a rare product of an alchemical experiment as an "ethereal sphere," which can be melted down
into a useable bar.  Ether is magma-safe, but cannot be used for armor.

NOTES: Ether was supposed to cause a syndrome upon contact with certain creatures, but this idea had to be scrapped due to technical difficulties.  The remnants
of this code have not been removed from the raws, but should not affect anything.


[NM7] - Lustrum

Lustrum is an unusual, glowing stone that can sometimes be found in veins within metamorphic rock.  It is not known how or why it forms, but it appears to be
similar to shale in all but color.  Lustrum glows with an unexplained energy, which some of the more eccentric dwarves have tried to find ways to harvest.  If they
were to succeed, lustrum could become a powerful intermediate fuel source between coal and magma.


[NM8] - Orichalcum

A rare mineral found infrequently in several common types of rock, orichalcum is found as "native orichalcum," which can be smelted into orichalcum bars.  Besides
being a moderate value crafting metal (35), orichalcum's unique shape-memory properties have the potential to bring about significant advances in Dwarven machinery.
Striking orichalcum is one of the ways to unlock some of the more advanced machinery-themed workshops.


[NM9] - Hadrine

Not technically a metal as much as it is a synthetic semi-metallic compound, hadrine is both extremely strong and extremely heavy.  Hadrine is used
in the manufacture of extremely advanced suits of armor.  Hadrine does not occur in nature - the dwarves must find a way to create it using
other means.


[NMA] - Experimental Materials

A few other ores (cooperite and monazite) may be found in small clusters, periodically.  These, along with cobaltite, are ores for a few "experimental" metals, which are
unlocked and utilized more and more as the dwarves continue to advance technologically.  Right off the bat, these aren't of much use, but they're worth holding on to.


[NMB] - Rift Warden's Essence

By far the most powerful metal in the game, this brilliant green metal is used in legends by the most powerful servants of the Old Gods.  There currently isn't any way of obtaining 
it for yourself, and it is highly unlikely that you will encounter this metal at all at this time.  If you get a noble asking for items of this metal, it might be time for a revolution.


-----


[WA0] WEAPONS

A variety of weapons have been added to the game, with properties derived from their real-life counterparts.
Some of these weapons are available from the get-go, but others are considerably more difficult to obtain.



[WA1] The Javelin Thrower:

The javelin thrower is a new breakthrough in Dwarven technology.  After losing several remote outposts to
the bog trolls (discussed later), who absorbed massive amounts of crossbow fire without even flinching,
the Dwarves realized that they needed a ranged weapon that packed more of a punch.  The resulting years of methodical
!!SCIENCE!! produced a great number of mangled corpses,  severed limbs, inexplicable burning wreckage, and the
javelin thrower.  

The javelin thrower is a two-handed crossbow of enormous size, meant solely for the purpose of
hurling a special ammunition at enemies with a dangerous amount of force.  While the crossbow was
designed to allow for hunters to kill animals without ruining the valuable meat and body parts, the
javelin thrower has no qualms about rendering enemies unrecognizable.  The javelin thrower uses javelins,
which are cast at a smelter (for technical reasons) out of metal bars, but are quite expensive - one bar
only produces three javelins, as opposed to the 25 crossbow bolts produced per bar at a forge.  The size of javelins
also prohibits rangers from carrying as many of them in their quivers.  This weapon is designed as a weapon to be
fired from the battlements to help break a siege, with a nearby ammo stockpile.  Novice marksmen are probably
better off using a crossbow, while master crossbowmen will make these precious few shots much more effective.

The Javelin Thrower is meant to function as an in-between to the crossbow and the ballista siege engine.  Since the
ballista cannot, regrettably, fire across z-levels, I felt inclined to design something more powerful than a crossbow
that could.  The javelin thrower, unlike the ballista, does NOT strike multiple targets.


[WA2] Types of Javelins:

Javelins, furthermore, are divided into four subtypes.

Crude javelins are weak, but can be produced from wood, bone, or metal in normal-sized (25) stacks.  These are 
intended for training or as emergency ammunition.

Broadhead javelins (the most fun, in my opinion), are javelins with a broad, sharpened cutting head.
These are designed to open arteries, cut tendons, and even sever limbs.  Full decapitation is not unheard of.

Piercing javelins are more traditional javelins, focusing all of their kinetic energy to a sharp point.  These
are made to pierce tough hides and strike vital organs, and are the most effective javelins against large
foes and megabeasts.  These javelins were designed to kill bog trolls, but have found themselves useful against
a variety of targets.

Hammerhead javelins are blunt javelins, which are most effective when cast out of high-density metals not suitable
for other types of javelin (i.e. lead).  They are designed to smash through armor - and skulls.  

Javelins (with the exception of crude javelins) are forged at a new building called the "metal caster."  This is 
discussed later.  Javelins are forged from five metal bars, producing a stack of fifteen javelins.



[WA3] The Age of the Two-Hander:

Two-handed weapons previously unavailable to Dwarves have had their [MINIMUM_SIZE] fields reduced below 60000.
This requires either replacing item_weapon.txt with the version included in this mod (easy), or modifying the file 
manually if compatibility is a concern (also easy, but harder than just replacing - this is covered in a later section).

Dwarves have been tweaked in the entity_default file to allow manufacture of the maul, greataxe, and two handed sword.  This allows
dwarves to sacrifice their shield-carrying ability for more damage, although this tends to be a more worthwhile sacrifice for more skilled 
combatants, who can make up for this newfound weakness with dodging and parrying.

Dwarves also have a new weapon in their arsenal - the glaive: a massive, two-handed spear with both a point and a substantial cutting edge.



[WA4] Other Tweaks:

Dwarves can now produce arrows and blowdarts (you will still need to acquire bows and blowguns by normal means).

The short sword has been renamed the "gladius."  Its [ITEM_WEAPON] identification tag has not been changed.

The long sword has also been added to the Dwarven arsenal.

The goblins have been given a new spear-type weapon (it isn't the glaive).

Elves have been given two of the three new types of bow.

Humans have been given two new types of blunt weapon.



[WA5] Mood Weapons:

"Mood weapons" are specialty weapons.  With only a few exceptions (ten or so, I think), they are not used by any races.  They are called "mood weapons" for two 
reasons.  The first is that, if you like, you can add them to any race's arsenal, depending entirely on your own preferences.  The second is that 
the only way to acquire these weapons is by a dwarf in a strange mood.  "Mood weapons" use existing skills, but add some new attacks and 
styles to combat.  An example is the jitte - a sword that deals blunt damage.  Some of these weapons are considerably
more powerful than their normal counterparts, adding new attacks and (sometimes) combat log wording befitting of their status
as legendary artifact weapons. One example is the serrated axe, which is basically an axe with an additional and very powerful
attack using its sawtoothed blade.  Other weapons are full of even more surprises.  I don't wish to give too much more away, but 
there are a substantial number of these weapons added to the RAWs.  If you want to ruin the surprise for yourself, peek into the item_weapon_narhiril file.

One thing is clear.  EXPECT NEW LEVELS OF BRUTALITY.

There are currently well over sixty different types of these "mood weapons," mostly based on real weapons from middle-age
cultures around the world, and these use a wide variety of combat attributes.  This list does not include the javelin thrower or the glaive, and
50(ish) of these weapons are not currently used by any civilizations (but feel free to add them as you wish).

This list includes...
19 new types of sword.
11 new types of spear.
4 new types of whip.
10 new types of dagger.
7 new types of axe.
1 new type of mining weapon.
5 new types of hammer.
4 new types of mace.
6 new types of crossbow.
3 new types of bow.
1 new type of pike.
1 new "punching" weapon.

5 of these new weapons are actually "dual" weapons.

Dual weapons are considered small two-handed weapons.  Strikes in the combat log with left and right weapons are simply different attacks.  These weapons,
currently, cannot be split and are considered one two-handed item ("pair of (weapon name)s").  They also are utterly vicious in combat.

Watching a weaponsmith produce "Kolshmistar (made up name), a mithril pitchfork" will hopefully surprise and excite you as much as it does me.

The FAQ/spoiler section and/or a typical Google search should tell you all you need to know about any weapon types you don't recognize.

Ok, I promise I won't give any more away now.


**NOTE**  Mood weapons have been integrated into a new "tech tree" element as of v0.13a to make them a little less rare.  See the technical advancement
section for details.


[WA6] Weapons Upgrades

As the dwarves continue to advance technologically, some dwarves may discover ways to make older weapon designs more effective.  This is discussed in more detail in the scientific
breakthroughs section, but I thought it was worth mentioning here as well.


[WA7] The Magnetic Dart Lancher and Magnetic Darts

A fair ways through LFR's tech tree, the dwarves may stumble on some fundamental properties of electromagnetism.  Experiments performed at the advanced alchemy lab can yield ways for 
the dwarves to use these new discoveries in the construction of a new weapon.  The magnetic dart launcher is a ranged weapon that fires a special kind of ammunition, magnetic darts, 
which are assembled at the prototype workbench (once it is unlocked, of course).  Several upgrades to the magnetic dart launcher can be researched as well, giving it enhanced melee or 
ranged capabilities.

Because the weapon requires a ferromagnetic projectile, magnetic darts can only be made from iron, steel, damascus steel, cobalt, and mithril.  Tungsten and voidshard darts can also be 
assembled, but require iron as an additional reagent.  Magnetic darts are produced from two bars of metal, and are made in stacks of sixty.


-----


[AR0] ARMOR

The advancement of Dwarven weapons technology, along with the advent of the bog trolls, has not occured without similar developments in
the field of personal protection.  While the two-handed weapons attempt to steal the spotlight on the battlefield, new types of armor and
shields have been developed in the interest of - well, veriety, for one, because that's fun - and for keeping the dwarf in the spotlight
alive to fight another day.


[AR1] Shields:

The tower shield has been added to the dwarven arsenal.  A massive, weighty shield, it provides more protection and block rate for those who
elect to use one-handed weapons.  The humans have developed a similar design.

A new civilization carries two unique types of shield.  The aegis and the bastion are powerful shields which vary slightly - the aegis has slightly better 
protection, while the bastion has slightly better block rate.  Both are significantly more advanced than even the dwarven tower shield, due in no small part 
to the mysterious technologies of their creators.  If you are very lucky, a dwarf in a strange mood may take inspiration from these designs and fashion a 
similar, powerful piece of armor for your civilization.

In the spirit of "mood weapons," a few (currently 4) additional types of shield have been added to the game and left unused (for now, anyways).  One of these 
shields is slightly superior to the buckler, one is slightly superior to the default shield, and two are slightly superior to the tower shield.


[AR2] Body Armor:

A new civilization uses a special, ornate kind of chain armor that is statistically identical to regular chainmail.  However, since these items are "large,"
they cannot be worn if they are taken from an invasion force.  Dwarves can, however, produce similar dwarf-sized items in strange moods.


[AR3] Leg Armor:

Humans have been given the plate skirt, which is a 33% more protective variant of the greaves with slightly (10%) poorer coverage.  In other words, it absorbs
impacts a bit better due to having room to yield, but it has a big hole in the bottom.  Dwarves can produce similar, dwarf-sized items in strange moods.


[AR4] Gloves and Boots:

A new civilization uses a new type of glove and boot that are statistically identical to the gauntlet and high boot.  However, since these items are "large,"
they cannot be worn if they are taken from an invasion force.  Dwarves can, however, produce similar dwarf-sized items in strange moods.


[AR5] Helms:

Dwarves can produce the "great helm," a helm that is much larger than the typical helmet.  This helmet is meant to be an indicator of military
authority, and to better protect the head of an important military dwarf.  This helm requires three bars of armor-grade metal to forge.

A new civilization uses two new types of helm that are statistically identical to the dwarven helm.  However, since these items are "large,"
they cannot be worn if they are taken from an invasion force.  Dwarves can, however, produce similar dwarf-sized items in strange moods.


[AR6] Clothing:

Two of the new civilizations use unique articles of clothing.  Similar clothing may be produced my dwarves in strange moods.  This clothing is meant
to add diversity to civilizations, and should not have a significant effect on combat.



-----


[CV0] CIVILIZATIONS

With armor and weapons augmented, civilizations seemed the next logical aspect to expand upon.  These new civilizations borrow some
ideas both original and from other fantasy universes and attempt to weave them together into a world of societies which is both unique 
and diverse.


[CV1] The Meowkin:

The meowkin are inspired by four concepts.  They are, in no particular order, kittens, mittens, weird japanese anime,
and crossdressing, The meowkin are a friendly (albeit slightly perverse) humanoid race with feline ears, paws, tails, and 
whiskers.  They will trade with your civilization and have a particular affinity for toys and cages - and they are not
always clear on the distinctions between the two.  More on the meowkin in the lore_meow.txt file, which is included with this mod.

NOTE: I did not make a "yarn ball" toy for the meowkin.  My own cat nearly died from playing with a yarn ball at a young age, so I refuse
to make one on principle.  If you REALLY want a yarn ball, I think the guys over on the S.L.A.D.E. mod ought to be able to help you, just
remember to add it to the entity file.


[CV2] The Bog Trolls:

The bog trolls are a subspecies of troll that live independantly from the goblins.  They are large, muscular creatures who love to
fight and have caused considerable disruptions to civilizations and trade routes in the past.  More on the bog trolls in the 
lore_bog_troll.txt file, which is included with this mod.


[CV3] The Voidwalkers:

An ancient civilization that predates the dwarves, the voidwalkers compose a secretive race that, for unexplained reasons, is motivated
to perform periodical brief and brutal displays of power.

Voidwalkers are hybrid insect-humanoid creatures with extremely powerful weapon technology.  They are meant to test the new technologies of the dwarves
and push them to their limits.  More on the voidwalkers can be found in the lore_void.txt file, which is included with this mod.


[CV4] The Lizardmen:

Lizardmen are a young race of bipedal reptiles.  They are a primitive society, and are highly xenophobic.  The lizardmen perform ambushes
and raids on other civilizations, but avoid open or prolonged conflicts, as they are badly outgeared by the organized militaries of other
civilizations.  Lizardman settlements are conquered frequently, but seem to spring up anew within a few years of their destruction.  As
these conquests yield little in the way of riches, most civilizations fight them defensively, repelling their ambushes and keeping
watch over the borders of their lands.  More on the lizardmen in the lore_lizardmen.txt file, which is included with this mod.


[CV5] The Nephilim:

"Nephilim" is a hebrew word roughly meaning "the fallen."  As a race, the nephilim resemble the angels of Christianity - pale humanoid
beings with feathered wings and long, flowing hair.  Nephilim are hostile to most of the more depraved races of the world, and are bound
by their religion to exterminate those who are morally inferior to them.  The nephilim are decent fighters, with the knowledge
of both the production of steel and flight. More on the nephilim in the lore_nephilim.txt file, which is included with this mod.


[CV6] The Moroii:

A nomadic tribal race that lives underground, the moroii resemble small, albino humanoids.  They speak a language unknown to outsiders and live
minimalistic lives.  Their only possessions are a bit of clothing, weaponry, and "relics" that they find beneath the earth.  The origin of these 
relics is not well understood, but the moroii treasure them above all else.  For more detail, consult the included lore_moroii.txt file.


[CV7] The Shedim:

A strange race of wrinkled creatures with distinctive, squid-like heads.  The shedim are a race that can only sustain itself with constant war, and have 
no permanent settlements or artifacts (though they do, curiously, have their own language).  The shedim are enemies to all other races, and their wide 
variety of castes and abilities make them a formiddable adversary.  Despite previous victories and a great thinning of their ranks, military commanders are briefed 
on their tactics and physiology even today, in case they should ever return in force.  One such briefing is included with this mod (lore_shedim.txt).


[CV8] The Vanguard:

Ruins of unknown origin are sometimes found deep beneath the earth.  Many of these ruins contain valuable artifacts, evidence of an extremely advanced civilization 
tens of thousands of years old.  Though evidence of their presence remains, all traces of the creators of these ruins seems to have utterly vanished.
While no theory as to their disappearance has ever been proven, this mysterious race, called "the Vanguard" in scientific circles, is nevertheless worthy of mention.


-----

[FC0] FRIENDLY CREATURES

"Friendly" is a relative term.  These creatures are relatively harmless, and many of them have practical uses.  Some are annoying, but not
by any means dangerous under normal circumstances.


[FC1] - Tortoises:

Tortoises are large but harmless reptiles that can be tamed as pets or used as mounts by some civilizations.  They graze infrequently, and
move slowly, making them relatively ineffective in combat.  Tortoise shells are somewhat valuable, and tortoises are the only breeding 
(non-vermin) source of shells in the game.

[FC2] - Pegasoi (by elf-fondling human):

Before any debate begins, pegasoi is, in fact, the correct Greek spelling of the plural of pegasus.  Pegasoi are creatures that can be found in some
good forest and shrubland biomes.  They are large, winged horses with the ability to fly.  Some civilizations use them as mounts.  Pegasoi do not
graze or trample grass.  Concept, statistics, and graphics for this creature were done by elf-fondling human of the bay12 forums.  Because permission has been 
graciously given to use this in LFR, this creature uses its own creature file (modularity - it's a theme here).

[FC3] - Cave Oysters:

Originally developed for an odd forum request, I've decided that the flying cave oyster, ridiculous though it may be, belongs in this mod because
it brings the pearl - a legendary material coded, but never seen in Dwarf Fortress - out of the shadows and into the game.  Flying cave oysters are, for
lack of a better word, flying cave oysters.  They are shelled creatures who have evolved a pair of small wings to escape from predators in the caverns.
Flying cave oysters can be shot down by marksdwarves, and while their shell typically breaks upon contact with the ground, they are known to drop
"flying cave oyster pearls," which fulfill the requirements for the "decorate with pearl/ivory" reaction.  They can be found in the first cavern level.

[FC4] - Will O' Wisps:

Benign spirits that hum softly and inhabit the deep caverns.  The air around them is chilly, hovering at a temperature just above freezing.  Will o' wisps
have a small chance of dropping a "will o' wisp heart," which can be used in an alchemical reaction.  Cheers, darkflagrance, for this idea.

[FC5] - Pigeons:

Pigeons are common above-ground birds.  They are fairly insignificant, but exist for immersion purposes (DF has a distinct lack of birds).  There is a highly
amusing easter egg related to pigeons that will not significantly affect gameplay.

[FC6] - Carbuncles:

Small, rabbit-sized creatures with outward-pointing ears.  They are considered to be good luck by several civilizations.  Breed them in proximity of a
nest box, and maybe you'll find out why.

[FC7] - Jackalopes:

An alternative to cats, jackalopes are domestic horned rabbits that hunt small creatures, but do not adopt their owners and leave vermin remains where they are.

[FC8] - Sabre-toothed Tigers

sabre-toothed tigers, once thought to be extinct, were recently rediscovered in the first and second cavern levels, and their domestication by the dwarves for hunting and war purposes swiftly 
followed.  They make excellent war animals.

[FC9] - Dwarven Savants

Very occasionally, a dwarf will be born with a learning disability.  While this hinders the dwarf's skill acquisition rates, these dwarves often have a single,
extremely high nautral skill.  These "savants" are physically identical to normal dwarves, but have natural specializations.  Finding a child with an extremely
high natural weaponsmithing skill is not unheard of.  Checking descriptions should give a clue as to when you've found a savant.

Periodically, dwarves with a gift for fighting will arrive as well.  While similar in appearance to savants, these dwarves do not have a natural skill or a stunted learning rate, but 
instead have enhanced learning rates for martial skills.  Unlike the "true" savants, these dwarves can be used for ritual transformations as well, though they will lose their growth rates 
if you choose to transform them.  Like savants, naturally skilled fighters can be identified by their descriptions.

[FCA] - Zingers

Zingers are benign, organic lumps of flesh found in the shallow caverns that have been "captured" and bred by the Dwarves.  Zingers explode violently when killed, and so are often used as
walking bombs for defensive purposes.  They must be bred and handled carefully.

[FCB] - Ankylosaurs

A rare species of desert reptile left over from ancient times, ankylosaurs are well-armored and make excellent, if expensive, war beasts.

[FCC] - Watchers

Watchers are floating eyeballs that search for internal threats within fortresses.  For more information about watchers, see the "internal threats" section under "other threats."


-----


[DC0] DEADLY CREATURES

Not all creatures are civilized, and this mod would not be complete without due attention to the forms of life not bound into
organized civiliations.  Some of these creatures (from the previous section) are docile, but many of them are anything but.  This
section describes the creatures of nightmares that dwarven legends are made of.  Hunting them can bring great risk or great reward.


[DC1] - The Devourer of the Depths:

Below the dwellings of the cave spiders and giant cave spiders are larger and even more dangerous arachnids.  These creatures
live for over a hundred years, and are roughly ten times the size of the average giant cave spider.  Dubbed "devourers of the
depths," colossal arachnids such as these spin webs of death and biologically synthesize deadly poisons in the dark and forbidden
caverns just above the magma sea.  Devourers of the depths are formiddable foes, but rarely are seen in significant numbers.  Their
webs are highly prized, as they are used in production of the finest silk in the known world.  Devourers avoid traps (sorry, you'll
have to get creative if you want to farm their silk).

A note - these things are TOUGH.  Tough enough to be evenly matched with as many as three or four damascus sentinels, or an entire squadron of 
military dwarves.  It is advisable, if you must fight one, to do so at range and try to incapacitate it quickly before it has time to tear the limbs 
off of your legendary axedwarf.

[DC2] - Wyverns:

Wyverns are a new type of megabeast.  They are brilliant red winged serpents, similar in size to dragons.  They also breathe dragonfire, and are
immune to pain, fear, nausea, traps, and paralysis.  Unlike their puny dragon cousins, wyverns can fly.  Wyverns are meant to be more challenging
than regular dragons - because of their immunities to pain, fear, and nausea, a lucky opening strike will not be as effective at stopping their 
rampage.  Befitting of their legendary status, items made from the parts of a slain wyvern are extremely valuable.

[DC3] - Leviathans:

Leviathans are rare creatures that inhabit the dark underwater abyss.  They are sometimes brought to the surface by violent storms or volcanism.  Though
they are not seen very often, leviathans are extremely dangerous foes that are capable of surviving for periods of time without water.  Many ships have been
dragged down to a watery grave by these beasts.  Like those of wyverns, a leviathan's body parts are extraordinarily valuable.

[DC4] - Damascus Sentinels:

Scattered throughout the dark caverns of the world are isolated structures of unknown origin.  Though most of these structures are so ancient that they are nearly
indistinguishable from natural features, they are sometimes guarded by mysterious living statues of damascus steel, which fervently defend the ruins of their masters.
Nameless, ageless, and deathless, these constructs are oblivious to the fact that their purpose has long since been lost to time.  Periodically, these constructs will
wander about the deep caverns, searching for enemies or resources that no longer exist.  If encountered, these creatures will fight tirelessly until their enemies are
dead or until they no longer have the structural integrity to continue fighting.  As these sentinels are made of a high-strength steel alloy, destroying or disabling
them is incredibly difficult.  They know no thought, no pain, no fear, no weakness, and no remorse.  Damascus sentinels are quite powerful, and vulnerable only
to weapons made from the highest quality of metals, or creatures of extraordinary strength (i.e. devourers).

Damascus sentinels are stronger and larger than iron men and are only found in the deepest cavern levels.  Like iron men, they emit gases when their outer shell is
punctured, but these gases do not carry a syndrome.  A single sentinel will demolish anything without enough power to penetrate its shell, and a pair of these 
constructs is a match for even an adept and well-geared squadron of soldiers.  Damascus Sentinels leave masterwork damascus steel clockwork pendants upon death, which
is the only way that this unusual trade good can be obtained.

There is a hidden feature related to these creatures, but I don't want to spoil too much of the fun.  Suffice to say, if you see a modified damascus sentinel with an
unusual name, remember that great risk comes with great reward.

[DC5] - Deep Wolves:

A strange subspecies of wolf that lurks in the first and second cavern levels.  Deep wolves are small and weak individually, but attack and travel in large packs.
Their sheer numbers are enough to overwhelm most trap systems or individual dwarves, though they are not immune to traps.  Deep wolves are easily frightened if their
numerical advantage starts to dissipate.  A half-decent militia with full sets of mid-level equipment will easily dispatch a pack of these creatures, but they can
cause mass hysteria if they catch dwarves off guard.  Deep wolves are not found on the third cavern level, presumably because they have no defense against damascus 
sentinels or devourers.  Deep wolves can receive hunting training.

[DC6] - Behemoths:

Behemoths are megabeasts nearly as large as dragons.  The earth shakes as they walk.  The first recorded sightings of these creatures were been in the deserts, but
some have been known to wander great distances.  In addition to their powerful physical strength, behemoths give off a terrible stench under duress, which sickens 
the stomach of most affected creatures.  These four-legged titans live for eons, unless slain.

[DC7] - Aatxes:

Aatxes (pronounced ah-chays) are bulls corrupted and twisted into enormous, pseudo-humanoid forms by malevolent spirits.  They are much larger than minotaurs, and
much more massive and deadly.  They are semi-megabeasts that inhabit the gloomy caves of the world.  Aatxes are prone to mad rampages across vast territories,
destroying anything in their path.

[DC8] - Masters of Locusts:

Humanoid creatures with bat-like wings, masters of locusts are a disorganized species without any known culture or settlements.  They are able to speak and learn 
to equip weapons and items, but seem to have no desire to do anything other than wander their desert homelands.  Masters of locusts are named for the great swarms
of biting insects they bring with them.  If attacked in combat, a master of locusts will use this cloud of insects to obscure, bite, and otherwise hinder attackers
while the creature uses the commotion to mount its defense.  Locust bites are painful and can draw some blood.  While these creatures are able to sometimes overwhelm
unprepared dwarves, they are vulnerable to ranged weapons, as the swarms of locusts do not stray far from their masters.

[DC9] - Banshees:

Banshees are very rare creatures that roam savage biomes.  They are vengeful spirits who have lost most of their influence over the material world, and wander around,
shrieking, in search of forgotten enemies. Putting a banshee to rest will yield an ectoplasmic remnant, which is discussed in more detail in the alchemy section.

[DCA] - Land Movers:

Massive turtles the size of small islands, land movers carry all sorts of plant and small animal life around on their backs.  Though non-lethal on its own, their 
blood carries a syndrome that makes them difficult to fight in direct combat.

[DCB] - Incubi:

Though unrelated to demons, these nightmarish creatures nevertheless resemble them.  It is said that the incubi once formed an advanced society in a time before time,
but they have since devolved into feral creatures who attack in small groups.  Incubi only appear in evil biomes.  They avoid traps, can fly, and are quite dangerous
in numbers to unarmed or untrained dwarves.  Incubi are divided into several castes based on size.

[DCC] - Manticores:

A massive lion-like predator with the wings of a bat.  Manticores are a dangerous new type of megabeast.  Fortunately, they won't bother you until your population
hits 80, or if you generate a disproportionate amount of wealth before then.

[DCD] - Megalania:

Megalania are giant goannas (think monitor lizard, but bigger and badder) that inhabit the caverns.  While megalania are extremely dangerous creatures to run into, 
easily able to overpower and kill unprepared dwarves, they are easy to train and domesticate if they can be captured.  Megalania make exceptional war beasts.


[DCE] - Jagged Crystal Dragons

Rare, powerful creatures that live in the deep caverns.  They are covered in a crystalline armor layer and can fire deadly crystal projectiles at enemies.  Bring an army.


[DCF] - Giant Cannon Beetles

These huge insects inhabit savage mountain biomes, and can fire stones to defend themselves.  While deadly, they can be domesticated and war-trained.


[DCG] - Rakshasas

A somewhat unusual specimen of animal man, rakshasas are panther-headed humanoids who are gifted illusionists.  Rakshasas only appear in evil biomes, and can heal and create 
illusionary copies of themselves in battle.  At this time, not much is known about how this particular ability functions.  Rakshasas are nomadic, working independent of each 
other.



[DCx] - Other Creatures:

There are a few other creatures included in this mod which are not listed in this manual, though some are hinted at in the lore files.  Most of these creatures are
extremely rare, "easter egg" type creatures deemed unneeded, overly unrealistic, or game-breaking if they were anything other than isolated encounters.  However, since
some of these creatures were quite amusing, I have included them in a seperate file named creature_easter_egg.txt.  If you do not wish to include these creatures, this
file can be safely removed without any effect on the rest of the mod.  However, if you do choose to include this file, all it does is allow for the possibility of
encountering one of these extremely rare creatures from time to time, which shouldn't affect gameplay much, if at all.



-----

[NP0] PLANTS

These are a variety of new plants aimed at broadening the spectrum and providing the always-desirable new forms of alcohol, food, thread, and wood.  Many of these
plants are aimed at providing high-value materials and food, but carry inherent drawbacks or risks to offset these gains.


[NP1] - Bluebells and Dwarven Whiskey:

Bluebells are small, bright blue mushrooms that grow above ground year-round in most climates.  They can be eaten raw,
cooked, or brewed into a special dwarven alcoholic delicacy: Uncle Urist's Old Number Nine whiskey - a relatively valuable type of
booze.

[NP2] - The Thyme Has Come:

I couldn't resist that pun.  Thyme is another above-ground plant.  It grows year-round in most climates, but is considerably rarer than bluebells.
Thyme cannot be eaten raw or brewed, but has a very high material value for a plant (10) and can be ground at a quern or millstone, 
tripling its value and making it an excellent cooking ingredient.  Thyme is the first of the new "advanced cooking" ingredients that
I plan to introduce.

[NP3] - Widow's Tear:

Widow's tear is an extremely dense underground tree, found starting in the second cavern level.  Its wood, when cut, reveals 
intricate and mystifyingly complex patterns.  This wood makes unusually effective ammunition, considering that it is organic.

[NP4] - Tonicbriar:

Tonicbriar is an underground plant found on all cavern levels.  It cannot be eaten raw or cooked due to its foul taste, but brews into a mid-value
form of alcohol known as bubbly briar tonic.  It grows in all seasons except for summer.

[NP5] - Voracious Maw and Atrophic Bliss:

Voracious maw is the anti - sun berry.  It can only be found in terrifying (SAVAGE and EVIL) biomes.  Though its growth cycle is 3 times 
longer than most plants, it does grow year-round.  Voracious maw petals can be cooked, or the plant can be brewed into a strong
liquor, equal in value to sunshine: "atrophic bliss."  However, despite its appeal to the senses, brewers of this spirit
should be very careful, as consumption of atrophic bliss can cause varying levels of withdrawal and intoxication, even beyond those experienced
with normal alcoholic beverages.

Very bold dwarves have even considered weaponizined this plant, but have encountered staunch resistance from the legions of
others who find its consumption value more appealing than its prospective defensive capabilities.

[NP6] - Winding Spire:

Winding spires are tall and twisted, but otherwise unremarkable mushrooms found on all cavern levels.  They can be eaten raw,
cooked, or brewed into "spire draught," a low value alcoholic drink.  Winding spires can be "unwound" into thread, but this thread
is rough in texture and less valuable than many other common textile crops.  Winding spires grow year-round.  They are extremely 
versatile, able to be eaten raw or used in, cooking, thread, and alcohol, but sacrifice value for this versatility.

[NP7] - Tatterstone's Buckle:

Named for Avuz Tatterstone, the dwarven spelunker who is credited with its discovery, this plant grows only in the darkest depths of the world,
far away from the warmth of the sun.  The square heads of this unusual plant give off a faint light in the depths.  Tatterstone made his fortune
selling samples of these plants to dwarves, elves, men, and any others who would buy them.  The thread produced from the careful dissection of these
plants is softer than velvet and cloth made from these fibers repels water, but allows air to pass through.  Because of its comfort, clothing made
from Tatterstone's buckle fiber is extremely valuable - more so than any other plant-derived textile.  Garments and crafts of this cloth are considered
lucky among some dwarves - though such luck did not seem to rub off on Tatterstone himself, who squandered away his fortune and died without a silver coin
to show for his discovery.

[NP8] - Pygmy Lime:

A miniature lime tree that grows in most above-ground regions.  Its small fruits can be cooked or brewed into the mid-value spirit called "lime vodka."
The tree is too small to yield any useable wood, but the fruits can be processed into pygmy lime zest, which is a valuable cooking ingredient in the 
kitchens of the wealthy.  Pygmy limes, mostly because of their size, are an easy food source to many wandering herbavores.  As a result, undisturbed
pygmy limes are uncommon in the wild, but can sometimes be found in small clusters during spring and summer months.  Once their seeds are obtained and
cultivated, they become a much more viable resource.

[NP9] - Prism Star:

A rare plant that grows in savage biomes.  Prism star is a summer vine with large, white flowers which reflect and bend sunglight.  This unusual color can 
be made into a high-value dye called "prismatic essence," which will transfer some of this unusual lustre to a piece of cloth.  Prismatic essence is
much more valuable than any other dye.  Prism stars do not have seeds.

[NPA] - Shankweed:

A knife-shaped plant that collects dew in wet biomes.  Shankweed can be brewed into "moonshine," which is perhaps better described as "piss in a barrel."  Moonshine
is the alcohol of the underbelly of Dwarven society.  If not brewed, shankweed can also be eaten raw, cooked, or ground into a fern green dye.  Shankweed grows
very fast - three times faster than most other plants.  If you grow shankweed, you'll never run out of it - but if you have other plants, you might wish you did.

[NPB] - Vine and Drops of Xanadu:

The vine of xanadu is a plant of legends.  It can be found in savage-good biomes, and is quite rare, but has a striking yellow color which is hard to miss.  This rare
plant brews into "drops of xanadu," the game's most valuable alcohol by an order of magnitude.  This plant takes many months to reach maturity.  Be very careful
not to trample these, as their growth cycle is ten times longer than the average plant.  They can be grown in farms, but acquiring the seeds necessary for such
an operation is quite a task.  Vines of xanadu can also be milled into a high value cooking ingredient, "heavenly seasoning."

[NPC] - Herald's Horn:

Herald's horn is another plant, which is also a high value but faster-growing version of the vine of xanadu.  It is still very rare, but does not require a 
savage-good biome, and is instead found on the bottom cavern level.  Instead, it cannot be grown on farms - in order to get a hold of it, you'll have to go 
into the deepest caverns and get it yourself.  With great risk comes... you get the idea.  Herald's horns are a brilliant light blue color.

[NPD] - Courage Oak:

A tree that seems to defy logic, flourishing only in biomes where animated corpses walk the earth.  This plant is slightly more valuable than other types of wood.

[NPE] - Mousebulb:

Mousebulb is a plant that was created as a joke.  Because I couldn't bear to leave it out of a mod that includes just about everything I've ever made for Dwarf Fortress, 
mousebulb is included in this mod.  It is identical to bluebells in everything but color and rarity (it's slightly less common), and produces a mid-value spirit called
"rodent rum."

[NPF] - White Anise:

A rare underground plant that grows year round.  You will have to dig pretty deep to find white anise, but once you find it, it can spread to other areas easily.  White anise 
can be milled to produce a high-value dye (not quite as high as prismatic essence), cooked, or brewed into "anisette," a high-value alcohol with a temporary hex-blocking effect.


-----


[NB0] NOBILITY CHANGES

A few tweaks to Dwarven nobility.



[NB1] - the Champion:

The champion is now appointed by the mayor.  He is no longer exempt from menial labors.  He also can now command a squad of "honor guards."


[NB2] = the Dungeon Master:

As of version 0.16a, the dungeon master has been scrapped in accordance with the new animal training system introduced with DF v0.34.06.


[NB3] - the Local Legend:

This new position is appointed as needed/desired by the player.  Dwarves in this position require only a bedroom and a cabinet.  The intention here
was to make specific dwarves, like legendary craftsmen and fighters, easier to find without having to use the cluttered units page, while simultaneously
allowing the player to "reward" exceptional dwarves for their contributions at leisure.  No duties or mandates are attached to this position, though they 
are allowed to make a single demand.  Local legend title holders are exported into legends mode.

If you don't like this feature, there is no downside to not appointing anyone to this position.  It is, however, available from the start.


[NB4] - the High Priest:

This position (as many as two) is appointed by the mayor.  Dwarves in this position require a bedroom, a chest, a cabinet, and a tomb, all of relatively modest quality.  
Holders of this position are exported into legends mode.  High priests/priestesses currently have no duties, demands, or mandates assigned to them - this position is solely 
there to enhance the flavor of the ritual tree if you desire to use it.  High priests are, like the champion, allowed to command of squad consisting of themselves and four 
bodyguards (thanks Pan).

If you don't like this feature, there is no downside to not appointing anyone to this position.


[NB5] - the Successor

This position is only appointable by a king or queen.  Upon the monarch's death, the holder of this position will inherit the throne.  This allows you to more readily establish 
your own lines of succession, if you so desire.


-----

[SC0] - DWARVEN SCIENCE AND CONSTRUCTION

The principles of !!SCIENCE!! have been applied to new workshops with new reactions.  Now, your dwarves can do !!SCIENCE!! in your fortresses.


[SC1] - the Foundry:

Another new workshop aimed at making megaprojects easier.  Since the mason's workshop does not allow you to choose which stones are used for blocks (at least
without mucking around with permissions), the foundry contains custom reactions for each type of stone blocks.  Note that the list of reactions is quite
extensive, so it is probably easier to simply order the blocks you want via the manager.  The foundry is built with SHIFT+F in the workshop menu.

Kipi from the Bay12 forums provided the idea, permission, and reaction raws for this building.


[SC2] - the Display Case:

Another Kipi original, the display case is a building that is constructed with blocks, a clear glass box, and any item (to be displayed).  This building can
be used to display an artifact.


[SC3] - the Metal Caster:

A building that requires two fireproof build materials.  This workshop is used to cast javelins for the javelin thrower using the smelter skill.


[SC4] - Dwarven Mechanical Advances (The "Tech Tree"):

The tech tree includes a very large quantity of buildings and components staggered across several tiers of advancement.  To avoid any confusion, these buildings are 
discussed in detail in their own lfr_mechanical_tree.txt file.  Weapons upgrades can be found here as well.


[SC5] - the Crematorium:

Not related to the tech tree, the crematorium is a fun little workshop which can be used to burn vermin remains, creating a single bar of ash.  If wood
is unavailable or scarce, this workshop can be used to effectively replace it for the soap or fertilizer industries.

[SC6] - the Loading and Unloading Stations:

*****NOTE: AS OF V0.18D, THESE BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED DUE TO DWARF FORTRSS HAULING CHANGES*****

Borrowed with permission from bdog, these workshops utilize a new tool called the "wheelbarrow".  A loading station can be built, which can be used by dwarves to fill the wheelbarrows with either
stone or wood, which will be hauled by other dwarves to an unloading station and dropped off there.  Useful for moving stone and wood for easier access.  Wheelbarrows can be constructed at the
machine shop, which is unlocked early in the tech tree.

*****

-----

[RT0] DWARVEN RITUAL AND SPIRITUALITY

Not to be outmatched by dwarven !!SCIENCE!!, dwarven ties to the spirit world continue to evolve over time.  Your fortress can choose to invoke the blessings of the Old Gods through sacrifice,
but risk their displeasure as well.  For more information on the old pantheon, see the lore_pantheon.txt file.


Ritual buildings contain three archetypes of reactions.  "Prayers" do not require any reagents, and do not pose any threat to your dwarves, but their rewards are rare or small in scale.  
"Rituals" generally deal with the conversion of resources to other resources.  They consume a few specific materials and can produce helpful or harmful products.  Finally, "ceremonies" 
require significant investment, but offer some of the ritual tree's most exciting rewards (and risks, of course).  Ceremonies deal with the conversion of creatures to other creatures or 
castes.


[RT1] - the Dwarven "Ritual Tree"

The dwarven ritual tree, like the tech tree, is extensive and contains a large number of builings, items, and reactions.  To avoid any confusion, these components have been given their own 
lfr_ritual_reference.txt file, where they are explained in more detail.


[RT2] - Ritual Units

Later in the ritual tree, you will gain the ability to perform reactions that can transform your dwarves into champions of the Old Gods.  These reactions are expensive, but permanently augment 
your dwarves in different ways.  Note that dwarves do not always survive and cannot undo this transformation, so choose your champions carefully!

-----

[HB0] HYBRID BUILDINGS

Hybrid buildings are structures that require an advancement in both the ritual and mechanical tech trees to unlock.


[HB1] - the Fishing Pond

The first "hybrid" building between the two trees, this building is quite large and requires a component from both the ritual and mechanical lines.  In order to keep the pond permanently
stocked, an automatic feeding device must be installed in the form of a few advanced mechanisms.  To actually feed and supply the fish, you'll need "Kogut's magical fish food," which requires
a special sacrifice at the altar.  Once the ritual and mechanical items are obtained, the pond can be constructed (it does not require water - this would have been a real pain in the ass
for both myself and for players.  If that's bothering you, you can imagine that Kogut provides the water as part of his magical fish food starter kit).  The fish pond contains three reactions:
fishing, lure-making, and fishing for the "big one."  Fishing has no requirement.  It is a reagent-free reaction with a low chance of producing a fish and it uses probability to emulate the
variable amount of time required to catch a fish - better fisherdwarves will burn through the low-chance reactions faster, and will usually find a fish sooner than novices.  This reaction is 
designed to be left on repeat once the natural fish run out (the downside: only one fisherdwarf can use it at a time).  The lure-making reaction uses the stonecrafting skill and takes a boulder
and some thread to produce a lure.  The lure is used when fishing for "the big one," which consumes the lure and is not always successful (line break!), but lands a monster of a fish as a reward.


[HB2] - the Temple of Fire

This temple is constructed using torchbearer gargoyles (made at the TCF from iron statues) and advanced mechanisms, plus a special object from documentation of alchemical
research.  The temple of fire currently hosts a single prayer for flux stone and fuel ("prayer for industry").  More reactions are planned for this building in the future.


[HB3] - the Exotic Cheesery

This workshop can be unlocked by chance products of certain rituals at the sacrificial altar (rare), or it can unlocked later in the tech tree from experiments in the advanced alchemy lab.  
The exotic cheesery can produce two types of cheese - Kogut's cheese is produced from a bar of ash and eggs, while the valuable "stonewall vintage" cheese is produced from stone and dimple 
cups.


-----

[OT0] - OTHER THREATS

[OT1] - Internal Threats

Periodically, a dwarf will commit high treason against his own people.  Dwarven saboteurs are deeply disturbed individuals, often victims of traumatic experiences or religious zeal, who will 
infiltrate your fortress and cause commotion, starting fights among your dwarves and poisoning your citizens stealthily.  Saboteurs, like vampires, assume false identities to hide their 
intentions.  In order to counter this new threat, the dwarves have tamed an unusual creature called a "watcher."

Watchers are floating eyeballs that can be purchased on embark or requested from the dwarven caravan.  Watchers will reveal saboteurs if they are within a few tiles of one, marking them with 
an (EXPOSED) tag after their name.  Once exposed, saboteurs will often panic and attack anything nearby, incluing the fragile watchers, so be on your guard.

It is a good idea to set up a "screening area" for new migrants, consisting of a watcher and a small contingent of troops, as soon as possible.

-----

[WC0] - WEATHER CHANGES

[WC1] - Dust Storms

Present in neutral and evil deserts, dust storms will kick up periodically, rolling across the map slowly.  Creatures who get dust in their eyes will hav+e their visi9on severely impaired until 
it is removed.

[WC2] - Freezing Rain

In tundra and glacier biomes, freezing rain will sometimes come instead of the usual snow storms.  Freezing rain has a severe negative effect on lizardmen, slowing and weakening them considerably 
due to their cold blood.

[WC3] - Void Mist

In evil biomes, clouds of void mist will periodically appear and linger for a short time.  Void mist is a mysterious substance that causes a slight weakening and slowing of most creatures who 
inhale it.  If voidwalkers inhale void mist, they recieve an attribute bonus for a short time instead of the usual weakening effect.

-----



[RC0] MANUAL COMPATABILITY FIXES


ONLY use this guide if you cannot overwrite your entity_default or item_weapon files due to pre-existing modifications.
If you have used this mod's replacement versions of these files, these changes have already been done for you.

This section contains minor spoilers about a small number of mood weapons.


[RC1] - required changes to entity_default.txt


NOTE: If you are upgrading from any previous version to 0.14a, the reaction "ECTO_ALCHEMY_M" should be removed from the entity_default file (no longer exists).

NOTE: The reaction "UNLOCK_ADV_CASTERS_M" was removed in v0.15a, and may cause errors if trying to convert older fortresses with DFWorldTinker.

Add to dwarves ([ENTITY:MOUNTAIN]):

	[AMMO:ITEM_AMMO_ARROWS]
	[AMMO:ITEM_AMMO_BLOWDARTS]
	[AMMO:ITEM_AMMO_JAVELINS_FOUR]
	[TOY:ITEM_TOY_TRAIN]
	[SHIELD:ITEM_SHIELD_TOWER]
	[HELM:ITEM_HELM_GREAT:COMMON]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_JAVELIN_THROWER]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_AXE_GREAT]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_MAUL]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_GLAIVE]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_SWORD_LONG]
	[TOOL:ITEM_TOOL_BAYONET_LFR]
	[SELECT_SYMBOL:REMAINING:BADASS_LFR]	
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_GRASS_WHEAT_CAVE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_POD_SWEET]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_GRASS_LONGLAND]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_MUSHROOM_CUP_DIMPLE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_WEED_BLADE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_ROOT_HIDE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_SLIVER_BARB]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_VINE_WHIP]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_PRISM_STAR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_XANADU_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_PYGMY_LIME]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_SHANKWEED]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_THYME]	
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_HELMET_PLUMP]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_TAIL_PIG]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_WHEAT_CAVE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_POD_SWEET]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_ROOT_MUCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_TUBER_BLOATED]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_BERRIES_PRICKLE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_BERRIES_STRAW_WILD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_GRASS_LONGLAND]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_WEED_RAT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_BERRIES_FISHER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_REED_ROPE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_SLIVER_BARB]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_BERRY_SUN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_VINE_WHIP]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_BLUEBELLS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_TONICBRIAR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_MOUSEBULB]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_SHANKWEED]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_HERALD_HORN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_XANADU_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_PYGMY_LIME]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_WINDING_SPIRE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_VORACIOUS_MAW]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MITHRIL_STRANDS_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REFINE_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SMELT_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SMELT_UNBIHEXIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_DAMASCUS]	
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ALCHEMY_LAB_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GOLD_SYNTHESIS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RANDOM_SYNTHESIS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ECTO_ALCHEMY]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SALVAGE_CLOCKWORK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CORE_RESEARCH]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:DISPLAY_CASE]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:BLOCK_FACTORY]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SANDSTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SILTSTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MUDSTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SHALE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CLAYSTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ROCK_SALT_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:LIMESTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CONGLOMERATE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DOLOMITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CHERT_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CHALK_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GRANITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DIORITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GABRO_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RHYOLITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BASALT_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ANDESITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DACITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:OBSIDIAN_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:QUARTZITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SLATE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PHYLLITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SCHIST_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GNEISS_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MARBLE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TALC_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:JET_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PUDDINSTONE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PETRIFIED_WOOD_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GRAPHITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:KIMBERLITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REALGAR_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ORPIMENT_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:STIBNITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MARCASITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SYLVITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CRYOLITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PERICLASE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ILMENITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RUTILE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CHROMITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PYROLUSITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PITCHBLENDE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BAUXITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BORAX_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:OLIVINE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:HORNBLENDE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:KAOLINITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SERPENTINE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ORTHOCLASE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MICROCLINE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MICA_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CALCITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SALTPETER_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ALABASTER_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SELENITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SATINSPAR_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ANHYDRITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ALUNITE_BLOCK]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CASTER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_LEAD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_SILVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_TUNGSTEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IOVIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_GOLD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_PLATINUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BISMUTH_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BISMUTH_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ALCHEMY_LAB_MAGMA_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RANDOM_SYNTHESIS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:GOLD_SYNTHESIS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SALVAGE_CLOCKWORK_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CORE_RESEARCH_M]	
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSMUTE_PLANTS_M]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CASTER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CASTER_MAGMA_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_COPPER_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_COPPER_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_COPPER_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_IRON_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_IRON_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IRON_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_STEEL_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_STEEL_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_MITHRIL_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_MITHRIL_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_STEEL_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_DAMASCUS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_DAMASCUS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_DAMASCUS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_LEAD_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_SILVER_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_TUNGSTEN_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IOVIUM_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_GOLD_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_PLATINUM_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_WHITE_GOLD_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ADVANCED_MECHANICS_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ORICHALCUM_TOOLS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_GOLD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_SILVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_STERLING_SILVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_STEEL_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_BRASS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_ROSE_GOLD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_TOOLS_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_TOOLS_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_TOOLS_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_TOOLS_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CORONER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_DIAGNOSIS]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:MEDICAL_DUMMY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_SURGERY]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_SUTURE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_DRESSING]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_SETTING]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CREMATORIUM_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BURN_VERMIN_REMAINS_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:OBSTACLE_COURSE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_DODGE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_ARMOR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_NINJA]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:SPARRING_PARTNER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_SPEAR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_AXE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_SWORD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_STRIKER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_KICK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_WHIP]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_HAMMER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_PIKE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_MACE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_DAGGER]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:LUSTRUM_REFINERY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:LUSTRUM_EXTRACTION]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:LUSTRUM_UNLOCK_GENERAL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DOCUMENTATION_ALCH]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DOCUMENTATION_ALCH_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ECTO_WISP]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ECTO_WISP_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EFFICIENT_JAVS_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EFFICIENT_JAVS_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EFFICIENT_JAVS_DAMASCUS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EFFICIENT_JAVS_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EFFICIENT_JAVS_ORICH]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:METAL_CASTER_ADV_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_COPPER_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_COPPER_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_COPPER_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_IRON_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_IRON_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IRON_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_STEEL_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_STEEL_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_MITHRIL_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_MITHRIL_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_STEEL_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_DAMASCUS_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_DAMASCUS_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_DAMASCUS_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_LEAD_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_SILVER_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_TUNGSTEN_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IOVIUM_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_GOLD_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_PLATINUM_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BISMUTH_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_ADV_CASTERS]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:METAL_CASTER_ADV_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_COPPER_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_COPPER_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_COPPER_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_IRON_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_IRON_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IRON_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_STEEL_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_STEEL_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_MITHRIL_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_MITHRIL_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_STEEL_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_DAMASCUS_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_DAMASCUS_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_DAMASCUS_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_LEAD_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_SILVER_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_TUNGSTEN_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_IOVIUM_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_GOLD_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_PLATINUM_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_BRONZE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_THREE_BISMUTH_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:EXMAT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EXMATS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CREATE_HADRINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:EXTRACT_HADRINE_STRANDS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CREATE_HADRINE_MESH]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CRAFT_HADRINE_PLATE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CRAFT_HADRINE_HELM]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EXWEPS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COPPER_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BRONZE_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BISMUTH_BRONZE_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SILVER_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:STEEL_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DAMASCUS_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MITHRIL_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADAMANTINE_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TUNGSTEN_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:IOVIUM_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:IRON_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:VOIDSHARD_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ETHER_EXWEP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_EXWEPS_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COPPER_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BRONZE_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BISMUTH_BRONZE_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SILVER_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:STEEL_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:DAMASCUS_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MITHRIL_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADAMANTINE_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TUNGSTEN_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:IOVIUM_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:IRON_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:VOIDSHARD_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ETHER_EXWEP_LFR_M]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ORRERY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_TEACHER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_OBSERVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_STUDENT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_ORRERY]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TRASH_COMPACTOR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB1]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB2]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB3]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB4]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB5]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB6]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_SLAB7]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:COMPACT_STONE]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CRYSTAL_TANK_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_RED]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_BLUE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_WHITE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_GREEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_YELLOW]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_BLACK]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CRYSTAL_PURPLE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ETHER_SPHERE_MELT]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ALTAR_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_FOUR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_FIVE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_SIX]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_SEVEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_EIGHT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_NINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SAC_BASE_TEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:KOGUT_FISH_RITUAL]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TEMPLE_CONSTRUCT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SHRINE_COMP_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SHRINE_COMP_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SHRINE_COMP_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SILVER_URN_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:SHRINE_VICTORY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RITUAL_VICTORY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_VICTORY_TWO_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BLESS_VICTORY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:SHRINE_NATURE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RITUAL_NATURE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_NATURE_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:SHRINE_PROSPERITY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RITUAL_PROSPERITY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_PROSPERITY_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_PROSPERITY_TWO_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:FISH_POND_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:FISH_IN_POND_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:FISH_BIG_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_LURE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:MACHINE_SHOP_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:STONE_BED_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:STONE_BIN_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TEMPLE_FIRE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_FIRE_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CEREMONY_OF_FIRE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:PLANT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_FIRE_TWO_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_FIRE_THREE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_FIRE_FOUR_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_FIRE_FIVE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CLEAN_TEMPLE_FIRE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_ADAMANTINE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_ADAMANTINE_M_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_ADAMANTINE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_ADAMANTINE_ADV]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_ADAMANTINE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_ADAMANTINE_M]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_ONE_ADAMANTINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_JAVELINS_TWO_ADAMANTINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_WHITE_GOLD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRAIN_DIAGNOSIS_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CRAFT_HADRINE_SHIELD]
	[GLOVES:ITEM_GLOVES_BRACERS_LFR:COMMON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_WHEELBARROW_STONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_MINECART_STONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_BUCKET_STONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNLOCK_TOOLS_COBALT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADVANCED_MECHANISMS_COBALT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REFINE_NEODYMIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REFINE_COBALT]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REFINE_PALLADIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REFINE_RANDOM]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ADV_ALCHEMY_LAB_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:REVERSE_ENGINEER_CAPACITOR_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_XBOW_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_XBOW_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_XBOW_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_MAGDART_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_MAGDART_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UPGRADE_TOME_MAGDART_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CAPACITOR_LFR_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CAPACITOR_LFR_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CAPACITOR_LFR_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SORT_ALGORITHM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_CATALYTIC_CONVERTER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADV_ALCH_EXPERIMENT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADV_ALCH_EXPERIMENT_SAFE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ADV_TRANSMUTE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_KNOCKOUT_COMPOUND]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:SCIENTIFIC_LIBRARY_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_ONE_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_ONE_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_ONE_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_TWO_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_TWO_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_XBOW_THREE_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_ONE_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_ONE_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_ONE_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_TWO_TWO]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_TWO_THREE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:TRANSCRIBE_BLUEPRINTS_MAGDART_THREE_THREE]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:PROTOTYPE_WORKBENCH_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_MAGDART_LAUNCHER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_CAPACITOR_MAGDART]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_IRON_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_STEEL_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_DAMASCUS_STEEL_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_COBALT_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_MITHRIL_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_TUNGSTEN_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_VOIDSHARD_MAGDARTS]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_BISMUTH_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_DAMASCUS_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_SILVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_TUNGSTEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_IOVIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_ETHER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_VOIDSHARD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_XBOW_ADAMANTINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_MECHANISM_XBOW]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_SPRING_XBOW]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_COPPER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_IRON]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_BISMUTH_BRONZE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_DAMASCUS_STEEL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_SILVER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_TUNGSTEN]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_IOVIUM]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_MITHRIL]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_ETHER]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_VOIDSHARD]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_BAYONET_MAGDART_ADAMANTINE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ATTACH_CAPACITOR_MAGDART]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:CHEESE_REACTOR_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_KOGUT_CHEESE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_STONEWALL_VINTAGE]

	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RAINBOW_DIAMOND_SYNTHESIS_ONE]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:RAINBOW_DIAMOND_SYNTHESIS_TWO]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:ARCHAEOLOGY_LAB_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SORT_RUBBLE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SORT_ARTIFACT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SORT_PRECIOUS_ARTIFACT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SORT_PRICELESS_ARTIFACT_LFR]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TEMPLE_WATER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BLESS_WATER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ASSEMBLY_WATER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_WATER_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CEREMONY_OF_WATER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BLESSING_WATER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TEMPLE_EARTH_WIND_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CEREMONY_OF_EARTH_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CEREMONY_OF_WIND_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_EARTH_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_EARTH_TWO_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_WIND_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ASSEMBLY_EARTH_WIND_LFR]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:MECH_CONSTRUCT_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:MECH_SPIDER_HUB_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ASSEMBLE_BRONZE_SPIDER_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_BRONZE_SPIDER_CHASSIS_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:SPIDER_CONTROL_MODULE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_MECH_EYE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:UNPACK_IMPORT_PARTS_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MAKE_DEPLOYMENT_KIT_BRONZE_SPIDER]

	[PERMITTED_BUILDING:TEMPLE_LIGHTNING_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:CEREMONY_OF_LIGHTNING_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:PRAYER_LIGHTNING_ONE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:ASSEMBLY_LIGHTNING_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:BREW_ANISE_LFR]
	[PERMITTED_REACTION:MILL_ANISE]


In the dwarven noble position raws, locate and change the following values:

	Under [POSITION:MONARCH] ...

	Replace the [SUCCESSION:BY_HEIR] token with [SUCCESSION:BY_POSITION:SUCCESSOR] ...

	Under [POSITION:CHAMPION] ...

	Delete the [MENIAL_WORK_EXEMPTION] tag.
	Delete all of the the [APPOINTED_BY:DUKE/COUNT/BARON] tags, and in their place add the following lines:
	
	[SQUAD:3:honor guard:honor guards]
	[APPOINTED_BY:MAYOR]


	... Leave the other tags alone.



	Somewhere directly before a [POSITION] tag, or at the end of these listings, add the following lines:

	
	[POSITION:LOCAL_LEGEND]
		[NAME:local legend:local legends]
		[SITE]
		[NUMBER:AS_NEEDED]
		[ACCOUNT_EXEMPT]
		[APPOINTED_BY:EXPEDITION_LEADER]
		[APPOINTED_BY:MAYOR]
		[PRECEDENCE:150]
		[EXPORTED_IN_LEGENDS]
		[DO_NOT_CULL]
		[CHAT_WORTHY]
		[COLOR:5:0:0]
		[REQUIRED_BEDROOM:1]
		[REQUIRED_CABINETS:1]
		[DEMAND_MAX:1]
	[POSITION:HIGH_PRIEST]
		[NAME_MALE:high priest:high priests]
		[NAME_FEMALE:high priestess:high priestesses]
		[SITE]
		[NUMBER:2]
		[SQUAD:5:acolyte:acolytes]
		[ACCOUNT_EXEMPT]
		[APPOINTED_BY:MAYOR]
		[PRECEDENCE:155]
		[EXPORTED_IN_LEGENDS]
		[DO_NOT_CULL]
		[CHAT_WORTHY]
		[COLOR:5:1:1]
		[REQUIRED_BEDROOM:100]
		[REQUIRED_CABINETS:1]
		[REQUIRED_BOXES:1]
		[REQUIRED_TOMB:100]
	[POSITION:SUCCESSOR]
		[NAME:successor:successors]
		[SITE]
		[NUMBER:1]
		[ACCOUNT_EXEMPT]
		[APPOINTED_BY:MONARCH]
		[PRECEDENCE:40]
		[EXPORTED_IN_LEGENDS]
		[DO_NOT_CULL]
		[CHAT_WORTHY]
		[COLOR:5:0:0]
		[REQUIRED_BEDROOM:250]
		[REQUIRED_DINING:250]
		[REQUIRED_CABINETS:1]
		[DEMAND_MAX:2]
		[MENIAL_WORK_EXEMPTION]

	... Now you can move on to the next step.



Add to the elves ([ENTITY:FOREST])
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_BOW_GREAT]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_BOW_RECURVE]


Add to the humans ([ENTITY:PLAINS])
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_CLUB]
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_MALLET]
	[SHIELD:ITEM_SHIELD_TOWER]
	[GLOVES:ITEM_GLOVES_BRACERS_LFR:COMMON]
	[PANTS:ITEM_PANTS_PLATE_SKIRT]

Add to the goblins ([ENTITY:EVIL])
	[WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_PITCHFORK]
	[GLOVES:ITEM_GLOVES_BRACERS_LFR:COMMON]

Feel free to add weapons to any race you like, including other custom or mod races.  There are over 50 "mood weapons" to choose from, some of which are much
more powerful than others.  The changes above, however, are the only ones I have included in the mod so far.




[RC2] - required changes to item_weapon.txt

	Locate the entries for... 
	
	[ITEM_WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_MAUL]
	[ITEM_WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_SWORD_2H]
	[ITEM_WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_AXE_GREAT]
	
	...under each of these entries, change [MINIMUM_SIZE:62500] to [MINIMUM_SIZE:#####]
	In this entry, "#####" should be replaced by a number less than 60000 (I used 52500).

	This will allow dwarves to wield these weapons, as an adult dwarf's size is 60000.
	If you want to enable the wielding of other two-handed weapons as well (which I did),
	also make this change for...

	[ITEM_WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_HALBERD]
	[ITEM_WEAPON:ITEM_WEAPON_PIKE]

	To remove the ridiculous armor penetration from whips and flails, change their BLUNT token to EDGE.  Velocity modifiers over 2000 have been reduced to 2000.  
	I have done this by default.


[RC3] - required changes to creature_standard.txt

	Delete everything from [CREATURE:DWARF] up until you get to [CREATURE:HUMAN].  Replace it with the following (massive wall of tokens)...


[CREATURE:DWARF]
	[NAME:dwarf:dwarves:dwarven]
	[CASTE_NAME:dwarf:dwarves:dwarven]
	[CREATURE_TILE:1][COLOR:3:0:0]
	[CREATURE_SOLDIER_TILE:2]
	[INTELLIGENT]
	[TRANCES]
	[BENIGN]
	[CANOPENDOORS]
	[BABY:1]
	[GENERAL_BABY_NAME:dwarven baby:dwarven babies]
	[BABYNAME:dwarven baby:dwarven babies]
	[CHILD:12]
	[GENERAL_CHILD_NAME:dwarven child:dwarven children]
	[CHILDNAME:dwarven child:dwarven children]
	[EQUIPS]
	[CAVE_ADAPT]
	[DIURNAL]
	[PREFSTRING:beards]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:CRAFTSMAN:craftsdwarf:craftsdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:FISHERMAN:fisherdwarf:fisherdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:HAMMERMAN:hammerdwarf:hammerdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:SPEARMAN:speardwarf:speardwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:CROSSBOWMAN:marksdwarf:marksdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:AXEMAN:axedwarf:axedwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:SWORDSMAN:swordsdwarf:swordsdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:MACEMAN:macedwarf:macedwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:PIKEMAN:pikedwarf:pikedwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:BOWMAN:bowdwarf:bowdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:MASTER_CROSSBOWMAN:Elite Marksdwarf:Elite Marksdwarves]
	[PROFESSION_NAME:MASTER_BOWMAN:Elite Bowdwarf:Elite Bowdwarves]
	[SPEECH:dwarf.txt]
	[HOMEOTHERM:10067]
	[ALCOHOL_DEPENDENT]
	[SWIMS_LEARNED][SWIM_SPEED:2500]
	[PERSONALITY:IMMODERATION:0:55:100]
	[PERSONALITY:VULNERABILITY:0:45:100]
	[PERSONALITY:STRAIGHTFORWARDNESS:0:55:100]
	[MANNERISM_FINGERS:finger:fingers]
	[MANNERISM_NOSE:nose]
	[MANNERISM_EAR:ear]
	[MANNERISM_HEAD:head]
	[MANNERISM_EYES:eyes]
	[MANNERISM_MOUTH:mouth]
	[MANNERISM_HAIR:hair]
	[MANNERISM_KNUCKLES:knuckles]
	[MANNERISM_LIPS:lips]
	[MANNERISM_CHEEK:cheek]
	[MANNERISM_NAILS:nails]
	[MANNERISM_FEET:feet]
	[MANNERISM_ARMS:arms]
	[MANNERISM_HANDS:hands]
	[MANNERISM_TONGUE:tongue]
	[MANNERISM_LEG:leg]
	[MANNERISM_LAUGH]
	[MANNERISM_SMILE]
	[MANNERISM_WALK]
	[MANNERISM_SIT]
	[MANNERISM_BREATH]
	[MANNERISM_POSTURE]
	[MANNERISM_STRETCH]
	[MANNERISM_EYELIDS]
	[SPOUSE_CONVERSION_TARGET]
	
	This is used for emberlights.

	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:HORN_FIREIMMUNE:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:HORN_FIREIMMUNE:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]

	Now we'll declare the specific castes.

	[CASTE:FEMALE]
		The gender tag lets it know how breeding works.
		[FEMALE]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.]
		To add beards, put square brackets around the following:
		BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS
		[POP_RATIO:100000]
	[CASTE:MALE]
		[MALE]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[POP_RATIO:100000]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.]
	[CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating weapons.]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:FORGE_WEAPON:12]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:WEAPONSMITH:weapon prodigy:weapon prodigies]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:FORGE_WEAPON:150]
	[CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating weapons.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:WEAPONSMITH:weapon prodigy:weapon prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:FORGE_WEAPON:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:FORGE_WEAPON:150]
	[CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. He is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating armor.]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ARMORER:armor prodigy:armor prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:FORGE_ARMOR:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:FORGE_ARMOR:150]
	[CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating armor.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ARMORER:armor prodigy:armor prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:FORGE_ARMOR:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:FORGE_ARMOR:150]
	[CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. He is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating ranged weapons.]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:BOWYER:bowyer prodigy:bowyer prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BOWYER:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BOWYER:150]
	[CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but has a natural gift for creating ranged weapons.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:BOWYER:bowyer prodigy:bowyer prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BOWYER:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BOWYER:150]
	[CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. He is a bit simple-minded, but likes to experiment and constantly mutters the word "enchantment."]  Dragon Age reference, for great justice.
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ALCHEMIST:savant:savants]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ALCHEMY:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ALCHEMY:150]
	[CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but likes to experiment.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ALCHEMIST:savant:savants]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ALCHEMY:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ALCHEMY:150]
	[CASTE:FERTILE_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[LITTERSIZE:1:3]
		[POP_RATIO:3000]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.]
	[CASTE:SHEEN_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink, industry, and WINNING.]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:LYING:5]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BLOWGUN:5]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:STANDARD:bum:bums]
		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:COMEDY:0]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
	[CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He is a bit simple-minded, but likes to play with sand.]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:GLASSMAKER:glassmaker prodigy:glassmaker prodigies]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:GLASSMAKER:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:GLASSMAKER:150]
	[CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but likes to play with sand.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:GLASSMAKER:glassmaker prodigy:glassmaker prodigies]
		[POP_RATIO:1000]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:GLASSMAKER:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:GLASSMAKER:150]
	[CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He is a bit simple-minded, but is beloved by most animals.]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ANIMAL_TRAINER:animal whisperer:animal whisperers]
		[POP_RATIO:500]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ANIMALTRAIN:12]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ANIMALCARE:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ANIMALTRAIN:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ANIMALCARE:150]
	[CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She is a bit simple-minded, but is beloved by most animals.]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_PROFESSION_NAME:ANIMAL_TRAINER:animal whisperer:animal whisperers]
		[POP_RATIO:500]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ANIMALTRAIN:12]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:ANIMALCARE:12]
		[SLOW_LEARNER]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ANIMALTRAIN:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ANIMALCARE:150]
	[CASTE:BAMBAM_MALE] lol flintstones
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He has a knack for destroying things.]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[POP_RATIO:3000]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MELEE_COMBAT:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:RANGED_COMBAT:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:GRASP_STRIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:STANCE_STRIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:DODGING:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BITE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:WRESTLING:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MILITARY_TACTICS:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ARMOR:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MISC_WEAPON:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:PIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SPEAR:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SWORD:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BOW:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:CROSSBOW:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BLOWGUN:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:WHIP:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:HAMMER:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:AXE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MACE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SHIELD:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:DAGGER:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:THROW:150]
	[CASTE:BAMBAM_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She tends to pick up martial skills very quickly.]
		[POP_RATIO:3000]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MELEE_COMBAT:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:RANGED_COMBAT:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:GRASP_STRIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:STANCE_STRIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:DODGING:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BITE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:WRESTLING:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MILITARY_TACTICS:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:ARMOR:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MISC_WEAPON:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:PIKE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SPEAR:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SWORD:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BOW:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:CROSSBOW:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:BLOWGUN:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:WHIP:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:HAMMER:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:AXE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:MACE:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:SHIELD:150]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:DAGGER:125]
      		[SKILL_LEARN_RATE:THROW:150]
	[CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven emberlight warrior:dwarven emberlight warriors:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He has been baptized in Zalkor's flames.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:COOK:8]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Hurl fireball]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:FLOW:FIREBALL]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:15]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:30]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Zalkor's flames]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
			[CDI:FLOW:FIREBALL]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:5]
   			[CDI:VERB:invoke Zalkor's flames:invokes Zalkor's flames:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are caught in the conflagration:is caught in the conflagration]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:5]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:300]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:NERVE_FIRE_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Mind burn]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:8]
   			[CDI:VERB:snap your fingers:snaps his fingers:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are overcome by an intense burning sensation:is overcome by an intense burning sensation]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:300]

	[CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven emberlight warrior:dwarven emberlight warriors:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She has been baptized in Zalkor's flames.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:COOK:8]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Hurl fireball]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:FLOW:FIREBALL]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:15]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:30]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Zalkor's flames]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
			[CDI:FLOW:FIREJET]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:5]
   			[CDI:VERB:invoke Zalkor's flames:invokes Zalkor's flames:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are caught in the conflagration:is caught in the conflagration]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:300]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:NERVE_FIRE_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Mind burn]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:8]
   			[CDI:VERB:snap your fingers:snaps her fingers:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are overcome by an intense burning sensation:is overcome by an intense burning sensation]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:300]

	[CASTE:HYDROMANCER_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven wavebreaker:dwarven wavebreakers:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  She has been blessed by Temanat with power over ice and water.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:OPERATE_PUMP:4]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:SWIMMING:10]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Hurl ball of ice]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_ICE:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:throw a ball of ice:throws a ball of ice:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:12]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:60]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Invoke hailstorm]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_ICE:SOLID_GLOB]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:12]
   			[CDI:VERB:invoke a hailstorm:invokes a hailstorm:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are buffeted by hail:is buffeted by hail]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:400]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION_WITH_HIDE_EFFECT_NO_WATER]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Mist form]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:FLEEING]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_MIST:TRAILING_GAS_FLOW]
			[CDI:VERB:meld into the mist:melds into the mist:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET:D:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:800]
			[CDI:FREE_ACTION]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:CLEANING]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Purify essence]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:CLEAN_SELF]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:CLEAN_FRIEND]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:purify:purifies:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are washed clean:is washed clean]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED:TOUCHABLE]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:100]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:RUST_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Temanat's rust hex]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:make a waving hand motion:makes a waving hand motion:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:feel weakened by Temanat's power:feels weakened by Temanat's power]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:15]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:2000]
	[CASTE:HYDROMANCER_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven wavebreaker:dwarven wavebreakers:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He has been blessed by Temanat with power over ice and water.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:OPERATE_PUMP:4]
			[NATURAL_SKILL:SWIMMING:10]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Hurl ball of ice]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_ICE:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:throw a ball of ice:throws a ball of ice:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:12]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:60]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Invoke hailstorm]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_ICE:SOLID_GLOB]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:12]
   			[CDI:VERB:invoke a hailstorm:invokes a hailstorm:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are buffeted by hail:is buffeted by hail]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:400]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION_WITH_HIDE_EFFECT_NO_WATER]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Mist form]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:FLEEING]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:TEMANAT_MIST:TRAILING_GAS_FLOW]
			[CDI:VERB:meld into the mist:melds into the mist:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET:D:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:800]
			[CDI:FREE_ACTION]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:CLEANING]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Purify essence]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:CLEAN_SELF]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:CLEAN_FRIEND]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:purify:purifies:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are washed clean:is washed clean]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED:TOUCHABLE]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:100]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:RUST_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Temanat's rust hex]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:make a waving hand motion:makes a waving hand motion:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:feel weakened by Temanat's power:feels weakened by Temanat's power]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:15]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:2000]
	[CASTE:SABOTEUR_MALE]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[MALE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:PRIME_SABOTEUR_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Pledge to commit high treason]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:5]
	[CASTE:SABOTEUR_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[ARENA_RESTRICTED]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.]
		To add beards, put square brackets around the following:
		BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:PRIME_SABOTEUR_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Pledge to commit high treason]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:5]
	[CASTE:ZEPHYR_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven zephyr:dwarven zephyrs:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. She has pledged her body to Lemox and has been rewarded with the boon of the wind goddess.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:DODGING:6]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:RANGED_COMBAT:8]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:THROW:8]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BOW:5]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:CROSSBOW:5]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BLOWGUN:5]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Sonic boom]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
   			[CDI:VERB:fire a vortex of turbulent air from your hand:fires a vortex of turbulent air from her hand:NA]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:CREATURE_MAT:CARBUNCLE_LFR:MINDBLAST:SOLID_GLOB]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:66] holy shit long range
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:1000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_JET_STREAM_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Second wind]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:4000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_TAILWIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Conjure tailwind]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:10]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:HEADWIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Conjure headwind]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:40]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:100]
	[CASTE:ZEPHYR_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven zephyr:dwarven zephyrs:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  He has pledged his body to Lemox and has been rewarded with the boon of the wind goddess.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:DODGING:6]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:RANGED_COMBAT:8]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:THROW:8]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BOW:5]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:CROSSBOW:5]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:BLOWGUN:5]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Sonic boom]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
   			[CDI:VERB:fire a vortex of turbulent air from your hand:fires a vortex of turbulent air from his hand:NA]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:CREATURE_MAT:CARBUNCLE_LFR:MINDBLAST:SOLID_GLOB]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:66] holy shit long range
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:1000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_JET_STREAM_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Second wind]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:4000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_TAILWIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Conjure tailwind]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:10]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:HEADWIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Conjure headwind]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:WING]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:40]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:100]
	[CASTE:STONEKIN_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven stonekin:dwarven stonekin:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. She has pledged her body to Kerox in exchange for a portion of the earth's power.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:CONCENTRATION:6]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Stone blast]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:SANDSTONE:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:hurl a stone:hurls a stone:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:200]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_STEADFAST_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Stand fast]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:18000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_STONE_SKIN_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Imbue with stone's endurance]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:6]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:800]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:EARTH_BIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Command the earth to slow nearby enemies]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
   			[CDI:VERB:churn the nearby earth:churns the nearby earth:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are slowed by the unsteady ground:is slowed by the unsteady ground]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:80]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:EARTH_TOMB_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Command the earth to entomb a single enemy]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
   			[CDI:VERB:call up a rock tomb:calls up a rock tomb:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are having difficulty moving:is having difficulty moving]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:12000]
	[CASTE:STONEKIN_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[MULTIPLE_LITTER_RARE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven stonekin:dwarven stonekin:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry. She has pledged her body to Kerox in exchange for a portion of the earth's power.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[NATURAL_SKILL:CONCENTRATION:6]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Stone blast]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:SANDSTONE:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:hurl a stone:hurls a stone:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:500]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_STEADFAST_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Stand fast]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ONLY]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:1]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:18000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:DWARF_STONE_SKIN_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Imbue with stone's endurance]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:SELF_ALLOWED]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:6]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:800]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:EARTH_BIND_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Command the earth to slow nearby enemies]
   			[CDI:VERB:churn the nearby earth:churns the nearby earth:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are slowed by the unsteady ground:is slowed by the unsteady ground]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:8]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:80]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:EARTH_TOMB_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Command the earth to entomb a single enemy]
   			[CDI:VERB:call up a rock tomb:calls up a rock tomb:NA]
   			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are having difficulty moving:is having difficulty moving]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:12000]
	[CASTE:TEMPEST_MALE]
		[MALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven tempest:dwarven tempests:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  Bartoth has given him the ability to invoke lightning and plasma at will.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:THUNDER_WAVE_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Thunder wave]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:point at a nearby location:points at a nearby location:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are stunned by a jolt of electricity:is stunned by a jolt of electricity]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:20]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:3000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:THUNDERCLAP_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Thunderclap]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:clap your hands once:claps his hands once]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are taken by surprise by the deafening thunder:is taken by surprise by the deafening thunder]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:20]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:3000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:PRIME_TEMPEST_CROSSOVER_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Imbue wavebreaker/zephyr with power]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:500]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Plasma shot]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:FAIL_STONE_ALCH_HOLYCRAP:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:hurl a ball of plasma:hurls a ball of plasma:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:500]
	[CASTE:TEMPEST_FEMALE]
		[FEMALE]
		[CASTE_NAME:dwarven tempest:dwarven tempests:dwarven]
		[DESCRIPTION:A short, sturdy creature fond of drink and industry.  Bartoth has given her the ability to invoke lightning and plasma at will.]
		[POP_RATIO:1]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:THUNDER_WAVE_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Thunder wave]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:point at a nearby location:points at a nearby location:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are stunned by a jolt of electricity:is stunned by a jolt of electricity]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:20]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:3000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:THUNDERCLAP_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Thunderclap]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:VERB:clap your hands once:claps her hands once]
			[CDI:TARGET_VERB:are taken by surprise by the deafening thunder:is taken by surprise by the deafening thunder]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:20]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:3000]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:PRIME_TEMPEST_CROSSOVER_LFR]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Imbue wavebreaker/zephyr with power]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:TARGET:A:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:A:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:A:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:500]
		[CAN_DO_INTERACTION:MATERIAL_EMISSION]
			[CDI:ADV_NAME:Plasma shot]
			[CDI:USAGE_HINT:ATTACK]
			[CDI:BP_REQUIRED:BY_CATEGORY:HAND]
			[CDI:MATERIAL:INORGANIC:FAIL_STONE_ALCH_HOLYCRAP:SOLID_GLOB]
   			[CDI:VERB:hurl a ball of plasma:hurls a ball of plasma:NA]
			[CDI:TARGET:C:LINE_OF_SIGHT]
			[CDI:TARGET_RANGE:C:10]
			[CDI:MAX_TARGET_NUMBER:C:1]
			[CDI:WAIT_PERIOD:500]

	[SELECT_CASTE:MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SHEEN_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FERTILE_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SABOTEUR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SABOTEUR_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:TEMPEST_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:TEMPEST_FEMALE]
	
	
	[BODY:HUMANOID:2EYES:2EARS:NOSE:2LUNGS:HEART:GUTS:ORGANS:HUMANOID_JOINTS:THROAT:NECK:SPINE:BRAIN:SKULL:5FINGERS:5TOES:MOUTH:FACIAL_FEATURES:TEETH:RIBCAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_MATERIALS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:VERTEBRATE_TISSUE_LAYERS:SKIN:FAT:MUSCLE:BONE:CARTILAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HEAD_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYEBROW:EYEBROW_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW:ABOVE:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYELASH:EYELASH_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:EYELID:EYELASH:FRONT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:NAIL:NAIL_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:NAIL:NAIL_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL:FRONT]
	[SELECT_TISSUE_LAYER:HEART:BY_CATEGORY:HEART]
	 [PLUS_TISSUE_LAYER:SKIN:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[TL_MAJOR_ARTERIES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RIBCAGE_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RELSIZES]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:LIVER:300]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:SINEW:SINEW_TEMPLATE]
	[TENDONS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW:200]
	[LIGAMENTS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW:200]
	[HAS_NERVES]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:BLOOD:BLOOD_TEMPLATE]
	[BLOOD:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:BLOOD:LIQUID]
	[CREATURE_CLASS:GENERAL_POISON]
	[GETS_WOUND_INFECTIONS]
	[GETS_INFECTIONS_FROM_ROT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:PUS:PUS_TEMPLATE]
	[PUS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:PUS:LIQUID]
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:AGILITY:150:600:800:900:1000:1100:1500]                 -
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]             +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:ANALYTICAL_ABILITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]    +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:FOCUS:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]                ++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:CREATIVITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]            +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:PATIENCE:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:MEMORY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]                +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:SPATIAL_SENSE:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]        ++
	[BODY_SIZE:0:0:3000]
	[BODY_SIZE:1:168:15000]
	[BODY_SIZE:12:0:60000]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CLOSE_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:ROUND_VS_NARROW:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LARGE_IRIS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:LIP]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:THICKNESS:50:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:lips:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:NOSE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:UPTURNED:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CONVEX:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:nose bridge:SINGULAR]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EAR]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SPLAYED_OUT:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HANGING_LOBES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GAPS:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:teeth:PLURAL]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:SKULL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_CHEEKBONES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROAD_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:JUTTING_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SQUARE_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:RASPY_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[MAXAGE:150:170]
	[ATTACK:PUNCH:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:GRASP]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:punch:punches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:MAIN]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:kick:kicks]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:SCRATCH:CHILD_TISSUE_LAYER_GROUP:BY_TYPE:GRASP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:scratch:scratches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:BITE:CHILD_BODYPART_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:BITE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:bite:bites]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_CANLATCH]


	[SELECT_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_FEMALE]

	[BODY:HUMANOID:2EYES:2EARS:NOSE:2LUNGS:HEART:GUTS:ORGANS:HUMANOID_JOINTS:THROAT:NECK:2HEAD_HORN:SPINE:BRAIN:SKULL:5FINGERS:5TOES:MOUTH:FACIAL_FEATURES:TEETH:RIBCAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FIREIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_MATERIALS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FIREIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:VERTEBRATE_TISSUE_LAYERS_FIREIMMUNE:SKIN_FIREIMMUNE:FAT_FIREIMMUNE:MUSCLE_FIREIMMUNE:BONE_FIREIMMUNE:CARTILAGE_FIREIMMUNE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HEAD_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS_FIREIMMUNE]
		[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:HORN:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
		[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:HORN:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE:ABOVE:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:EYELID:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[SELECT_TISSUE_LAYER:HEART_FIREIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:HEART]
	 [PLUS_TISSUE_LAYER:SKIN_FIREIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[TL_MAJOR_ARTERIES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RIBCAGE_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RELSIZES]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:LIVER:300]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:HORN:50]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TENDONS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:200]
	[LIGAMENTS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:200]
	[HAS_NERVES]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[BLOOD:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE:LIQUID]
	[CREATURE_CLASS:GENERAL_POISON]
	[GETS_WOUND_INFECTIONS]
	[GETS_INFECTIONS_FROM_ROT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:PUS:PUS_TEMPLATE]
	[PUS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:PUS:LIQUID]
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:AGILITY:150:600:800:900:1000:1100:1500]                 -
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]             +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:ANALYTICAL_ABILITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]    +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:FOCUS:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]                ++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:CREATIVITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]            +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:PATIENCE:450:650:750:1000:1150:1250:1270]               -
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:MEMORY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]                +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:SPATIAL_SENSE:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]        ++
	[BODY_SIZE:0:0:3000]
	[BODY_SIZE:1:168:15000]
	[BODY_SIZE:12:0:60000]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CLOSE_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:ROUND_VS_NARROW:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LARGE_IRIS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:LIP]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:THICKNESS:50:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:lips:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:NOSE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:UPTURNED:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CONVEX:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:nose bridge:SINGULAR]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EAR]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SPLAYED_OUT:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HANGING_LOBES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GAPS:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:teeth:PLURAL]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:SKULL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_CHEEKBONES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROAD_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:JUTTING_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SQUARE_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:RASPY_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[MAXAGE:190:250]
	[ATTACK:PUNCH:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:GRASP]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:punch:punches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:MAIN]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:kick:kicks]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:SCRATCH:CHILD_TISSUE_LAYER_GROUP:BY_TYPE:GRASP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:scratch:scratches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:BITE:CHILD_BODYPART_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:BITE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:bite:bites]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_CANLATCH]

	[SELECT_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_FEMALE]

	[BODY:HUMANOID:2EYES:2EARS:NOSE:2LUNGS:HEART:GUTS:ORGANS:HUMANOID_JOINTS:THROAT:NECK:SIDE_FINS:DORSAL_FIN:SPINE:BRAIN:SKULL:5FINGERS:5TOES:MOUTH:FACIAL_FEATURES:TEETH:RIBCAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:TEMPIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_MATERIALS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:TEMPIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:VERTEBRATE_TISSUE_LAYERS_TEMPIMMUNE:SKIN_TEMPIMMUNE:FAT_TEMPIMMUNE:MUSCLE_TEMPIMMUNE:BONE_TEMPIMMUNE:CARTILAGE_TEMPIMMUNE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HEAD_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYEBROW_TEMPIMMUNE:EYEBROW_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW_TEMPIMMUNE:ABOVE:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYELASH_TEMPIMMUNE:EYELASH_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:EYELID:EYELASH_TEMPIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[SELECT_TISSUE_LAYER:HEART_TEMPIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:HEART]
	 [PLUS_TISSUE_LAYER:SKIN_TEMPIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[TL_MAJOR_ARTERIES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RIBCAGE_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RELSIZES]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:LIVER:300]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:HORN:50]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:SINEW_TEMPIMMUNE:SINEW_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TENDONS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_TEMPIMMUNE:200]
	[LIGAMENTS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_TEMPIMMUNE:200]
	[HAS_NERVES]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:BLOOD_TEMPIMMUNE:BLOOD_TEMPIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
		[STATE_NAME_ADJ:LIQUID:precious bodily fluids] dr strangelove reference
	[BLOOD:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:BLOOD_TEMPIMMUNE:LIQUID]
	[CREATURE_CLASS:GENERAL_POISON]
	[GETS_WOUND_INFECTIONS]
	[GETS_INFECTIONS_FROM_ROT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:PUS_TEMANAT:PUS_TEMPLATE]
	[PUS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:PUS_TEMANAT:LIQUID]
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:AGILITY:950:1000:1200:1300:1500:1600:1700]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]             +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:ANALYTICAL_ABILITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]    +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:FOCUS:900:1300:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]                ++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:CREATIVITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]            +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:PATIENCE:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:MEMORY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]                +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:SPATIAL_SENSE:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]        ++
	[BODY_SIZE:0:0:3000]
	[BODY_SIZE:1:168:15000]
	[BODY_SIZE:12:0:60000]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CLOSE_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:ROUND_VS_NARROW:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LARGE_IRIS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:LIP]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:THICKNESS:50:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:lips:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:NOSE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:UPTURNED:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CONVEX:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:nose bridge:SINGULAR]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EAR]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SPLAYED_OUT:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HANGING_LOBES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GAPS:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:teeth:PLURAL]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:SKULL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_CHEEKBONES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROAD_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:JUTTING_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SQUARE_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:RASPY_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[MAXAGE:190:250]
	[ATTACK:PUNCH:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:GRASP]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:punch:punches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:MAIN]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:kick:kicks]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:SCRATCH:CHILD_TISSUE_LAYER_GROUP:BY_TYPE:GRASP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_TEMPIMMUNE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:scratch:scratches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:BITE:CHILD_BODYPART_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:BITE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:bite:bites]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_CANLATCH]

	[SELECT_CASTE:STONEKIN_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:STONEKIN_FEMALE]

	[BODY:HUMANOID:2EYES:2EARS:NOSE:2LUNGS:HEART:GUTS:ORGANS:HUMANOID_JOINTS:THROAT:NECK:SPINE:BRAIN:SKULL:5FINGERS:5TOES:MOUTH:FACIAL_FEATURES:TEETH:RIBCAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FIREIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_MATERIALS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FIREIMMUNE_ADDITIONAL_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:VERTEBRATE_TISSUE_LAYERS_FIREIMMUNE:SKIN_FIREIMMUNE:FAT_FIREIMMUNE:MUSCLE_FIREIMMUNE:BONE_FIREIMMUNE:CARTILAGE_FIREIMMUNE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HEAD_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS_FIREIMMUNE]
		[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:HORN:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
		[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:HORN:HORN_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW_FIREIMMUNE:ABOVE:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:EYELID:EYELASH_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE:FRONT]
	[SELECT_TISSUE_LAYER:HEART_FIREIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:HEART]
	 [PLUS_TISSUE_LAYER:SKIN_FIREIMMUNE:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[TL_MAJOR_ARTERIES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RIBCAGE_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RELSIZES]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:LIVER:300]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:HORN:50]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[TENDONS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:200]
	[LIGAMENTS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW_FIREIMMUNE:200]
	[HAS_NERVES]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE_TEMPLATE]
	[BLOOD:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:BLOOD_FIREIMMUNE:LIQUID]
	[CREATURE_CLASS:GENERAL_POISON]
	[GETS_WOUND_INFECTIONS]
	[GETS_INFECTIONS_FROM_ROT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:PUS:PUS_TEMPLATE]
	[PUS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:PUS:LIQUID]
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:750:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:AGILITY:150:600:800:900:990:1000:1200]                  --
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:1050:1250:1450:1750:2050:2150:2250]           +++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:ANALYTICAL_ABILITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]    +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:FOCUS:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]                ++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:CREATIVITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]            +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:PATIENCE:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:MEMORY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]                +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:SPATIAL_SENSE:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]        ++
	[BODY_SIZE:0:0:3000]
	[BODY_SIZE:1:168:15000]
	[BODY_SIZE:12:0:60000]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CLOSE_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:ROUND_VS_NARROW:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LARGE_IRIS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:LIP]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:THICKNESS:50:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:lips:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:NOSE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:UPTURNED:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CONVEX:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:nose bridge:SINGULAR]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EAR]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SPLAYED_OUT:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HANGING_LOBES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GAPS:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:teeth:PLURAL]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:SKULL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_CHEEKBONES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROAD_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:JUTTING_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SQUARE_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:RASPY_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[MAXAGE:150:170]
	[MATERIAL_FORCE_MULTIPLIER:INORGANIC:NONE:9:10] incoming daage from metal/rock weapons reduced by 10%
	[ATTACK:PUNCH:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:GRASP]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:punch:punches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:MAIN]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:kick:kicks]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:stomp:stomps]
		[ATTACK_VELOCITY_MODIFIER:1500]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:SCRATCH:CHILD_TISSUE_LAYER_GROUP:BY_TYPE:GRASP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL_FIREIMMUNE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:scratch:scratches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:BITE:CHILD_BODYPART_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:BITE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:bite:bites]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_CANLATCH]

	[SELECT_CASTE:ZEPHYR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ZEPHYR_FEMALE]

	[BODY:HUMANOID:2EYES:2PIXIE_WINGS:2EARS:NOSE:2LUNGS:HEART:GUTS:ORGANS:HUMANOID_JOINTS:THROAT:NECK:SPINE:BRAIN:SKULL:5FINGERS:5TOES:MOUTH:FACIAL_FEATURES:TEETH:RIBCAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_MATERIALS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:VERTEBRATE_TISSUE_LAYERS:SKIN:FAT:MUSCLE:BONE:CARTILAGE]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HEAD_HAIR_TISSUE_LAYERS]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYEBROW:EYEBROW_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW:ABOVE:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:EYELASH:EYELASH_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:EYELID:EYELASH:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:WING:SKIN:NORMAL]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:NAIL:NAIL_TEMPLATE]
	[USE_TISSUE_TEMPLATE:NAIL:NAIL_TEMPLATE]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL:FRONT]
	[TISSUE_LAYER:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL:FRONT]
	[SELECT_TISSUE_LAYER:HEART:BY_CATEGORY:HEART]
	 [PLUS_TISSUE_LAYER:SKIN:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[TL_MAJOR_ARTERIES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:FACIAL_HAIR_TISSUES]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_HEAD_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RIBCAGE_POSITIONS]
	[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:HUMANOID_RELSIZES]
	[RELSIZE:BY_CATEGORY:LIVER:300]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:SINEW:SINEW_TEMPLATE]
	[TENDONS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW:200]
	[LIGAMENTS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:SINEW:200]
	[HAS_NERVES]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:BLOOD:BLOOD_TEMPLATE]
	[BLOOD:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:BLOOD:LIQUID]
	[CREATURE_CLASS:GENERAL_POISON]
	[GETS_WOUND_INFECTIONS]
	[GETS_INFECTIONS_FROM_ROT]
	[USE_MATERIAL_TEMPLATE:PUS:PUS_TEMPLATE]
	[PUS:LOCAL_CREATURE_MAT:PUS:LIQUID]
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:AGILITY:150:600:800:900:1000:1100:1500]                 -
	[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]             +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:ANALYTICAL_ABILITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]    +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:FOCUS:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]                ++
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:CREATIVITY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]            +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:PATIENCE:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]              +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:MEMORY:450:950:1150:1250:1350:1550:2250]                +
	[MENT_ATT_RANGE:SPATIAL_SENSE:700:1200:1400:1500:1600:1800:2500]        ++
	[BODY_SIZE:0:0:3000]
	[BODY_SIZE:1:168:15000]
	[BODY_SIZE:12:0:60000]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[BODY_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:75:95:98:100:102:105:125]
		[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:500]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CLOSE_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_SET:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:ROUND_VS_NARROW:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LARGE_IRIS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:LIP]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:THICKNESS:50:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:lips:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:150:190]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:NOSE]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:25:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:30:60:90:110:150:190]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:UPTURNED:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CONVEX:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:nose bridge:SINGULAR]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EAR]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SPLAYED_OUT:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HANGING_LOBES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:ears:PLURAL]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GAPS:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:teeth:PLURAL]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:SKULL]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_CHEEKBONES:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROAD_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:JUTTING_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:SQUARE_CHIN:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:THROAT]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DEEP_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:RASPY_VOICE:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
	[SET_BP_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:BROADNESS:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
		[BP_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HEIGHT:90:95:98:100:102:105:110]
			[APP_MOD_IMPORTANCE:700]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:91:94:98:102:106:109]
	[MAXAGE:150:170]
	[ATTACK:PUNCH:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:GRASP]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:punch:punches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:MAIN]
	[ATTACK:KICK:BODYPART:BY_TYPE:STANCE]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:STANCE_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:kick:kicks]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_WITH]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:SCRATCH:CHILD_TISSUE_LAYER_GROUP:BY_TYPE:GRASP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:GRASP_STRIKE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:scratch:scratches]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
	[ATTACK:BITE:CHILD_BODYPART_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:BY_CATEGORY:TOOTH]
		[ATTACK_SKILL:BITE]
		[ATTACK_VERB:bite:bites]
		[ATTACK_CONTACT_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_PENETRATION_PERC:100]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_EDGE]
		[ATTACK_PRIORITY:SECOND]
		[ATTACK_FLAG_CANLATCH]

	[SELECT_CASTE:MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SHEEN_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FERTILE_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_FEMALE]
  	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_MALE]
  	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ZEPHYR_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ZEPHYR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:STONEKIN_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:STONEKIN_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SABOTEUR_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SABOTEUR_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_FEMALE]

		[CREATURE_CLASS:DWARF]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:HAIR]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHEEK_WHISKERS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHIN_WHISKERS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:MOUSTACHE]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:SIDEBURNS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYELASH]
	[TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:AMBER:1:AUBURN:1:BLACK:1:BROWN:1:BUFF:1:BURNT_SIENNA:1:BURNT_UMBER:1:CHARCOAL:1:CHESTNUT:1:CHOCOLATE:1:CINNAMON:1:COPPER:1:DARK_BROWN:1:DARK_CHESTNUT:1:DARK_TAN:1:ECRU:1:FLAX:1:GOLD:1:GOLDEN_YELLOW:1:GOLDENROD:1:LIGHT_BROWN:1:MAHOGANY:1:OCHRE:1:PALE_BROWN:1:PALE_CHESTNUT:1:PUMPKIN:1:RAW_UMBER:1:RUSSET:1:SAFFRON:1:SEPIA:1:TAN:1:TAUPE_DARK:1:TAUPE_GRAY:1:TAUPE_MEDIUM:1:TAUPE_PALE:1:TAUPE_SANDY:1]
				[TLCM_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
			[TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:GRAY:1]
				[TLCM_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
				[TLCM_TIMING:ROOT:80:0:130:0]
			[TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:WHITE:1]
				[TLCM_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
				[TLCM_TIMING:ROOT:130:0:150:0]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYEBROW]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:50:80:90:100:110:120:150]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyebrows:PLURAL]
				[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:130:145]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DENSE:50:80:90:100:110:120:150]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyebrows:PLURAL]
				[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:130:145]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:HIGH_POSITION:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyebrows:PLURAL]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:EYELASH]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:50:80:90:100:110:120:150]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:eyelashes:PLURAL]
				[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:130:145]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:HAIR]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHEEK_WHISKERS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHIN_WHISKERS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:MOUSTACHE]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:SIDEBURNS]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:0:0:0:0:0:0:0]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
				[APP_MOD_RATE:1:DAILY:0:1000:0:0:NO_END]
				[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:10:25:75:125:200:300]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:CURLY:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:GREASY:0:70:90:100:110:130:200]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:DENSE:50:80:90:100:110:120:150]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
				[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:55:70:90:110:130:145]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:HAIR]
			[TISSUE_STYLE_UNIT:HAIR:STANDARD_HAIR_SHAPINGS]
				[TSU_NOUN:hair:SINGULAR]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHEEK_WHISKERS]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:CHIN_WHISKERS]
			[TISSUE_STYLE_UNIT:BEARD:STANDARD_BEARD_SHAPINGS]
				[TSU_NOUN:beard:SINGULAR]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:MOUSTACHE]
			[TISSUE_STYLE_UNIT:MOUSTACHE:STANDARD_MOUSTACHE_SHAPINGS]
				[TSU_NOUN:moustache:SINGULAR]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:HEAD:SIDEBURNS]
			[TISSUE_STYLE_UNIT:SIDEBURNS:STANDARD_SIDEBURNS_SHAPINGS]
				[TSU_NOUN:sideburns:PLURAL]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:FINGER:NAIL]
		 [PLUS_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:TOE:NAIL]
			[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:LENGTH:100:100:100:100:100:100:100]
				[APP_MOD_RATE:1:DAILY:0:1000:0:0:NO_END]
				[APP_MOD_NOUN:nails:PLURAL]
		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:ALL:SKIN]
	[TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:BROWN:1:BURNT_UMBER:1:CINNAMON:1:COPPER:1:DARK_BROWN:1:DARK_PEACH:1:DARK_TAN:1:ECRU:1:PALE_BROWN:1:PALE_CHESTNUT:1:PALE_PINK:1:PEACH:1:PINK:1:RAW_UMBER:1:SEPIA:1:TAN:1:TAUPE_PALE:1:TAUPE_SANDY:1]
			[TLCM_NOUN:skin:SINGULAR]
		[TISSUE_LAYER_APPEARANCE_MODIFIER:WRINKLY:0:0:0:0:0:0:0]
			[APP_MOD_RATE:1:YEARLY:0:100:60:0:NO_END]
			[APP_MOD_NOUN:skin:SINGULAR]
			[APP_MOD_DESC_RANGE:0:0:0:1:25:50]

	[SELECT_CASTE:MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SHEEN_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:FERTILE_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ALCHEMY_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:WEAP_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ARMOR_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BOW_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:GLASS_SAVANT_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ANIMAL_WHISPERER_FEMALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_MALE]
	[SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:BAMBAM_FEMALE]

		[SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE:EYE]
			[TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:IRIS_EYE_AMETHYST:1:IRIS_EYE_AQUAMARINE:1:IRIS_EYE_BRASS:1:IRIS_EYE_BRONZE:1:IRIS_EYE_COBALT:1:IRIS_EYE_COPPER:1:IRIS_EYE_EMERALD:1:IRIS_EYE_GOLD:1:IRIS_EYE_HELIOTROPE:1:IRIS_EYE_JADE:1:IRIS_EYE_OCHRE:1:IRIS_EYE_RAW_UMBER:1:IRIS_EYE_RUST:1:IRIS_EYE_SILVER:1:IRIS_EYE_SLATE_GRAY:1:IRIS_EYE_TURQUOISE:1]
			[TLCM_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL]

[SELECT_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_FEMALE]
  [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:EMBERLIGHT_WARRIOR_MALE]
		[FIREIMMUNE_SUPER]
		[MAGMA_VISION]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:OLD_GOD_LFR]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:ZALKOR]
		SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE:EYE removed due to crash
			TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:IRIS_EYE_RED:1
				TLCM_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL

[SELECT_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_MALE]
  [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:HYDROMANCER_FEMALE]
		[FIREIMMUNE_SUPER]
		[AMPHIBIOUS]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:TEMANAT]
		[SWIM_SPEED:1200]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:OLD_GOD_LFR]
		SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:EYE:EYE
			TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:IRIS_EYE_AZURE:1:IRIS_EYE_TURQUOISE:1:IRIS_EYE_AMETHYST:1:IRIS_EYE_COBALT:1:IRIS_EYE_JADE:1:IRIS_EYE_SLATE_GRAY:1
				TLCM_NOUN:eyes:PLURAL
		SET_TL_GROUP:BY_CATEGORY:FIN:SKIN_TEMPIMMUNE
			TL_COLOR_MODIFIER:AZURE:1:JADE:1:TURQUOISE:1:AMETHYST:1:COBALT:1:SLATE_GRAY:1
				TLCM_NOUN:fins:PLURAL


[SELECT_CASTE:STONEKIN_FEMALE]
  [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:STONEKIN_MALE]
		[FIREIMMUNE] cannot be lit on fire by conventional means, but still vulnerable
		[CREATURE_CLASS:OLD_GOD_LFR]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:KEROX]


[SELECT_CASTE:ZEPHYR_FEMALE]
  [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:ZEPHYR_MALE]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:OLD_GOD_LFR]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:LEMOX]


[SELECT_CASTE:TEMPEST_FEMALE]
  [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:TEMPEST_MALE]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:OLD_GOD_LFR]
		[CREATURE_CLASS:BARTOTH]
		[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:STRENGTH:150:350:450:550:650:750:950]
		[PHYS_ATT_RANGE:TOUGHNESS:150:350:450:550:650:750:950]

[SELECT_CASTE:SABOTEUR_MALE]
   [SELECT_ADDITIONAL_CASTE:SABOTEUR_FEMALE]
		[MISCHIEVOUS]



	...Under [CREATURE:KOBOLD], paste the following:

		[NO_EAT][NO_DRINK]



	...under [CREATURE:DRAGON], replace the line:

		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:STANDARD_MATERIALS]

	...with the line:

		[BODY_DETAIL_PLAN:ENHANCED_BONE_STANDARD_TEMPLATE]	


Assuming you moved all of the other text files with non-conflicting names into your RAWs, the mod should now function properly.











-----








[PQ0] Potential confusion section.


This section contains some spoilers about mood weapons in order to clarify what attributes these weapons use.

As some of these weapons seem to encompass multiple attributes, the attributes selected for weapons that do not clearly
fit into Dwarf Fortress' categories are listed below.


























Scroll down if you still want to see.

































To dispell any pending confusion:

-The halberd, while not a new weapon, still uses its default axe skill.  It is a default weapon in item_weapon, and has not been modified apart from [MINIMUM_SIZE].
-The lance is the only new pike.  The default pike has had its [MINIMUM_SIZE] reduced.  All other pike-like weapons use the spear skill.  
-The lucerne polehammer uses the spear skill - NOT the hammer skill, as its name would suggest.
-The butterfly knives and khukri use the dagger skill.
-The machete uses the sword skill.
-The only new mining weapon should be VERY obvious when it shows up.  It is not the battle pick.
-The battle pick uses the mace skill - NOT the mining skill.
-The jitte, as previously mentioned, uses the sword skill.
-The club uses the hammer skill.
-The kusari-gama uses the whip skill.
-The claws use the dagger skill.
-The arbalest uses regular bolts and the crossbow skill.  Its melee attack uses the hammer skill.
-The urumi uses the whip skill - it's technically a sword, but its use is more akin to a whip, and I have too many swords already.
-The keris uses the sword skill.
-The cudgel uses the mace skill.
-The mallet uses the hammer skill.
-The cinquedea uses the dagger skill.
-The giant fork uses the spear skill.
-The giant spoon uses the hammer skill.
-The gastraphetes uses the crossbow skill and arrows for its ranged attack, and the hammer skill for its melee attack.
-The repeating crossbow (chu ko nu) is identical to the crossbow, but fires blowdarts.
-The crowbar uses the mace skill.
-The rake uses the spear skill.
-The felling axe uses the axe skill and is two-handed.
-The hurlbat uses the axe skill.
-The knuckles are a two-handed weapon and use the striker skill.  They are currently the only weapon to do so.
-The new bows, without exception, have "bow" in their name, use the bow skill, and use arrows.  If it doesn't have "bow" in the name, it isn't a bow.
-The melee attacks for the new bows use the mace skill, except for the great bow which uses the spear skill instead.
-The staff, quarterstaff, and the void hurling staff all use the spear skill.  The void hurling staff uses the spear skill for its ranged attack as well.
-The void energy projector and the void hurling staff both use a new type of ammunition, which the dwarves cannot produce.
-If the voidwalkers are removed from the game, your moody dwarves might still produce a void hurling staff or void energy projector.  These will still function
properly, but the dwarves will not be able to acquire ammunition for them.
-The other advanced versions of the crossbow, unlocked through the tech tree, use the spear skill.
-The advanced versions of the magnetic dart launcher, unlocked through the tech tree, use the sword skill.
-The regular (unenhanced) magnetic dart launcher uses the mace skill.
