THE DWARVEN MECHANICAL TECHNOLOGY TREE



[0.0] Table of contents
[1.0] Introduction to the mechanical tech tree
[2.0] Starting out - alchemy, javelin throwers, and metal casters
	[2.1] Metal casters and javelin throwers
	[2.1] Alchemical experiments
	[2.2] Transmutation
	[2.3] Turning stones into gold
	[2.4] ADVANCEMENT - Orichalcum
	[2.5] Other Alchemical Reactions
[3.0] Tier one - advanced mechanisms and training workshops
	[3.1] The advanced mechanics workshop
	[3.2] Training Workshops
	[3.3] The Machine Shop
	[3.4] ADVANCEMENT - Evaluating research
	[3.5] The Trash Compactor
	[3.6] The Archaeology Lab
[4.0] Tier two - exotic weapons, armor, and energy sources
	[4.1] Efficient casters
	[4.2] Energy from lustrum
	[4.3] The weapons concept laboratory
	[4.4] The orrery
	[4.5] ADVANCEMENT - The experimental materials workshop
	[4.6] Reactive armor
[5.0] Tier three - hybrid weapons and some serious science
	[5.1] The crystal growth tank
	[5.2] ADVANCEMENT - The advanced alchemy lab
	[5.3] Weapon upgrades
	[5.4] The scientific library
	[5.5] The prototype workbench
[6.0] Tier four - mechanical constructs and armor upgrades*  (*coming soon!)
	[5.1] The mechanized defense laboratory
	[5.2] The spider deployment hub
 	[5.3] Basic constructs
	[5.4] Imported components

--

[1.0] INTRODUCTION TO THE MECHANICAL TECH TREE

The Dwarven mechanical technology tree is based on reason, experimentation, and advancement of dwarven capabilities.  None of the elements of this tree are required to create a working fortress, 
but are there to enhance your capabilities and keep the game fresh for a much longer period of time.  

-------------


[2.0] STARTING OUT - ALCHEMY, JAVELIN THROWERS, AND METAL CASTERS

Right off the bat, the dwarves have access to three new technologies from the mechanical tree ("tier zero").  The dwarves can build alchemy labs and metal casters.  Alchemy labs are extremely 
fun (and by "fun" I mean "dangerous and unpredictable") workshops with a variety of functions which will be explained at length, and metal casters exist to create javelins.  Both of these
workshops have magma-powered versions, which do not require fuel.

--

[2.1] METAL CASTERS AND JAVELIN THROWERS

Metal casters require five metal bars to forge a stack of fifteen javelins.  Javelins come in three varieties, all of which can be fired from javelin throwers, which can be created at 
the bowyer's workshop (from bone or wood) or a forge (from metal).  Javelin throwers are extremely powerful ranged weapons that use the crossbow skill, but their ammunition is extremely 
expensive.  Javelin throwers can be manufactured in the same ways as crossbows.

--

[2.2] ALCHEMICAL EXPERIMENTS

The alchemy lab has several functions, all relating to dwarven scientific advancement.  Alchemical experiments take three non-economic stones and some fuel, and can produce any number of 
products.  Possible outcomes of this reaction...


COMMON

Experiment results (used for advancement)
Copper bars
Gold bars
Silver bars
Bismuth bars
Thick alchemical vapors (causes your alchemist to become dizzy for a short period of time)


UNCOMMON

Lustrum rocks
Hazardous radiation (causes your alchemist to vomit for a short period of time, can VERY RARELY cause more severe complications)


RARE

Ethereal spheres (can be processed and melted down into ether bars at a smelter)
Mithril bars
Ectoplasmic remnant (used by the sacrificial altar in the ritual tree)
Corrosive energies (causes severe, moderate duration blistering all over your alchemist's body)
Intense heat (can light nearby objects on fire)

--

[2.2] TRANSMUTATION

The alchemy lab can also perform a "plant transmutation experiment."  This reaction takes six seeds and some fuel to produce a random assortment of plants.  This reaction is useful for 
increasing the variety of plants at your disposal, but also carries some risks.  Side effects, in order of increasing severity, may include drowsiness, temporary blindness, and spontaneous 
combustion.  Like alchemical experiments, this reaction produces experiment results.


--

[2.3] TURNING STONES INTO GOLD

Of course, the primary goal of alchemists everywhere is to advance the scientific knowledge of the Dwarven race, but increasing the standard of living is a close second.  Alchemists can take 
five mundane stones and some fuel to produce a single gold bar.  This reaction does not carry the risks associated with the alchemical experiments, but does not allow for the other rewards, either.

--

[2.4] ORICHALCUM

The way to advance to the next tier of the mechanical tech tree, you'll need to get your hands on some precision tools.  In all but the rarest of cases, this means you're going to be after some 
orichalcum - a rare metal that occurs primarily in microcline and orthoclase deposits.  Do whatever you have to do to get ahold of this material - you only need a single bar in order to fashion 
the first set of precision tools at the alchemy lab.  Either dig around (explore the caverns) or trade for some orichalcum with the dwarven caravan.  Once you have a bar of the stuff, it can be 
fashioned into a precision tool kit at the alchemy lab (no fuel is required).


--

[2.5] OTHER ALCHEMY LAB REACTIONS

A small number of other reactions are present at the alchemy lab.  "Document alchemical research" will be covered in section 3, and the other two reactions involve very rare reagents that you may 
come across in the deeper caverns.  They provide some reward for these discoveries, but are not essential to advancing the tech tree.



-------------


[3.0] TIER ONE - ADVANCED MECHANISMS AND TRAINING WORKSHOPS

After striking orichalcum, or (rarely) coming across precision tools by other means in the caverns, you will have the component you need to build the first "tier one" workshop.

--

[3.1] THE ADVANCED MECHANICS WORKSHOP

This building is constructed with the precision tools that you have.  It has several functions, but the two most basic are to produce more precision tools (which it can do from several 
more common metals) and to produce advanced mechanisms from a variety of metals.  The advanced mechanics workshop has some other reactions involving efficient casters and reactive 
armor, but these are not used until later tiers, and will be discussed in detail as they are unlocked.

--

[3.2] TRAINING WORKSHOPS

Using certain combinations of furniture, advanced mechanisms, and precision tools, you can now create "training workshops" for dwarves to advance medical and military skills.

The mechanical sparring partner can be constructed using advanced mechanisms and some other, more common components.  Dwarves can train any melee weapon skill here.  This 
small workshop is a great way to get your military up and running, and to more rapidly train replacements.

The mechanical obstacle course allows dwarves to safely train armor, dodge, and sneak skills.  This workshop can be used to train military dwarves, hunters, or even civilians, who can 
benefit from dodging skill.

The morgue requires precision tools to construct.  This workshop can perform mock autopsies, which train the diagnose skill.  Performing an autopsy on a vermin corpse is also possible, and 
advances the skill a bit faster, consuming the remains.

The medical training dummy requires precision tools and advanced mechanisms to construct, and can train suturing, surgery, wound dressing, and bone setting.  Combined with the morgue, this 
workshop makes it possible to train up a pretty sharp medical staff even in times of peace.

All training workshops produce a "stone of enlightenment" every time they are used.  The game does not advance a skill unless a reaction produces a product, so these exist for logistical purposes. 
These stones boil away harmlessly once they are created, creating a harmless puff of white smoke.  As you might imagine, these do not work properly if temperature is turned off.

--

[3.3] THE MACHINE SHOP

Constructed from advanced mechanisms, precision tools, and some metal chains, the machine shop allows the dwarves to make precision cuts in stone for more complicated assembly.  This building 
allows you to create stone beds, stone bins, stone wheelbarrows, stone barrels, stone mine carts, and stone buckets.

--

[3.4] EVALUATION

The alchemy lab has a reaction called "evaluate experiment results."  Since the recent advent of dwarven science, alchemists are quick to conduct their experiments, but are less eager to 
sit down and pore over the theories and implications of their discoveries.  This reaction involves a dwarf sitting down and looking over past experiments, getting rid of any experiment results 
you have lying around.  More importantly, this reaction has a small chance every time it is performed of producing a scientific discovery, in the form of an item.  In other words, the more 
you experiment, the more results you get.  The more results you get, the more evaluation reactions you can perform, and the faster you can advance to the next tier.

Objects to look for popping up after these reactions...

"Hastily chiseled image of an exotic-looking weapon"

"Inscribed slab documenting an expanded theory on celestial mechanics"

"Carved treatise on the effects of gasoline on fire"

"Perplexing slab detailing the experimental synthesis of hadrine"

"Detailed slab showing the experimental extraction of energy from lustrum"

"Carved blueprints for a more efficient javelin caster"


--

[3.5] THE TRASH COMPACTOR

This building exists to clean up the clutter left from documentation reactions.  SInce you'll likely be using alchemical experiments long after unlocking all of the possible advances from 
them, this workshop can efficiently take either experiment results or leftover advancement items and crush them into a dense stone called "amalgamite," which is unremarkable, but colorful.  
The trash compactor can also destroy stones, if you so desire.


--

[3.6] THE ARCHAEOLOGY LAB

The archaeology lab is constructed using a set of precision tools, an advanced mechanism, a table, a chair, a cabinet, and some building materials.  This building is used to process vanguard 
artifacts, which you will occassionally find underground.



-------------


[4.0] TIER TWO - EXOTIC WEAPONS, ARMOR, AND ENERGY SOURCES

Unlike tier one, tier two of the tech tree is non-linear.  Each of the possible products of documentation unlocks a different building in tier two of the tech tree.  Once built, these 
buildings can create more of these items at any time and at no cost, essentially "unlocking" them permanently.  The order in which these technologies will become available to you is based 
on what items your documentation reactions create first, which is random and adds to the fun.  Don't worry, you'll have them all unlocked pretty quickly (and there is a safeguard in tier three
in case you happen to be miss one or two).

--

[4.1] EFFICIENT CASTERS

Using the "carved blueprints for a more efficient javelin caster" and an "efficient casting device" from the advanced mechanics workshop, a more efficient metal caster can be built.  This 
building is identical to the metal caster, but only consumes three bars when producing a stack of 15 javelins (as opposed to five).  Like the metal caster, a magma version is available.

--

[4.2] ENERGY FROM LUSTRUM

The experimental lustrum energy extractor is constructed using the "detailed slab showing the experimental extraction of energy from lustrum."  It can take lustrum rocks and convert them into 
refined coal (three coal per rock) as a high-yield fuel source.  Lustrum extraction is known to take a toll on the workers, however, and prolonged exposure to lustrum energies can result in 
fevers and severe coughing fits, which tend to improve after the extraction process is finished.

--

[4.3] THE WEAPONS CONCEPT LABORATORY

The "hastily chiseled image of an exotic-looking weapon" is used to construct the weapons concept lab, which can take three of any weapons-grade bar and produce a random weapon, often of a 
unique and powerful design.  Though the process does not always bear fruit, it can allow for your arsenal to include some otherwise unavailable weapons, many of which are quite powerful.  This 
workshop has a magma-powered version as well.  You never know what you're going to get when you fire this workshop up, but I'm sure you'll have a lot of fun with it.

--

[4.4] THE ORRERY

Using the "inscribed slab documenting an expanded theory on celestial mechanics," the orrery can be constructed.  The orrery is one additional training workshop, which can train the student, 
observer, and teacher skills to make military demonstrations more effective.

--

[4.5] THE EXPERIMENTAL MATERIALS WORKSHOP

In order to advance to tier three of the tech tree, you need to acquire a rainbow diamond.  There are two ways of doing this - the easier of the two is through the experimental materials workshop.  
The experimental materials workshop is created using the "perplexing slab detailing the experimental synthesis of hadrine."  Hadrine is manufactured here in blocks made from mithril, steel, ash, 
and tungsten.  While manufacturing a block of hadrine, there is a 50% chance of producing a rainbow diamond as a byproduct.  Rainbow diamonds can also be found by acquiring a very rare and 
powerful creature, which lays them as eggs from time to time.  AS of v0.18, alchemists can also create rainbow diamonds using various combinations of rare gems.

Hadrine blocks, once synthesized, can be extracted into hadrine strands, which can then be woven into a "woven hadrine mesh."  This item is used in the production of reactive armor.

The experimental materials workshop also has the ability to refine monazite, cooperite, and cobaltite into palladium, neodymium, and cobalt.  These metals will be used in tier three.
If these ores are unavailable, the "search for trace elements" reaction consumes a few mundane stones for a chance at producing these three bars as well.  None of these reactions require fuel. 
In addition, neodymium, cobalt, and palladium can all be requested from the dwarven caravan.

--

[4.6] REACTIVE ARMOR

Using hadrine, it is possible for the dwarves to combine advanced materials and mechanisms to create massive, bulky, immensely protective pieces of armor.  Hadrine can be used to fashion a helm, 
a breastplate, and a shield.  All of these are assembled at the advanced mechanics workshop, and are extremely heavy, but offer unparalleled protection.

-------------


[5.0] TIER THREE - HYBRID WEAPONS AND SOME SERIOUS SCIENCE

Once you get a rainbow diamond, you can advance into tier three of the tech tree.


--

[5.1] THE CRYSTAL GROWTH TANK

The first tier three building you will be putting up is the crystal growth tank, using a few clear glass boxes and a rainbow diamond.  This workshop can convert mundane stones into colorful 
crystalline blocks and gems.  In addition to being fun and useful items for construction projects, these colored blocks are required in small quantities for the advanced alchemy lab and 
prototype workbench.

--

[5.2] THE ADVANCED ALCHEMY LAB

once you have crystalline blocks of the appropriate colors, you can construct an advanced alchemy lab.  Generally, the first thing you want to do with this workshop is to develop a 
"sorting algorithm," which is a free reaction that unlocks the scientific library (and, later, the mechanized defense laboratory).  The advanced alchemy lab performs more specialized 
versions of the alchemy experiments and transmutation experiments of the original alchemy lab, complete with dangerous byproducts and new rewards.

Successfully developing magnetic projectile weapons will allow you to advance to tier four.  This particular advancement is discussed in more detail in the next section, as well as in the 
lfr_mechanical_t3.txt reference file.

--

[5.3] WEAPONS UPGRADES

Besides the basic experiment reactions, the advanced alchemy lab can also perform research to improve existing dwarven weapons, or to create new ones entirely.  There are currently two possible 
paths of advancement, which are completely independent of each other - crossbow advances and magnetic dart advances.

Crossbows are nothing new to Dwarf Fortress, but upgrades are.  Research on crossbows will produce a "tome," which is used at the scientific library to make blueprints for upgrading weapons.  As 
the tome is advanced from "apprentice" level to "journeyman" and "master," more upgrades become possible for the dwarven crossbow.  At the apprentice level, a bayonet can be attached to a 
crossbow, giving the weapon an effective stabbing attack.  At journeyman level, the bayonet crossbow can be outfitted with an advanced high-tension mechanism, increasing its ranged power.  
Finally, at the master level, the mechanized bayonet crossbow can be outfitted with a spring to add additional punch to its bayonet attack.  Tomes are used in the reactions to unlock better 
tomes, but they are not consumed, as these research reactions are not always successful the first time around.  Bayonet crossbows use the spear skill for their melee attacks.

Researching magnetic projectiles will produce another "tome" for the magnetic dart launcher.  This tome is used at the scientific library to manufacture blueprints for magnetic dart launchers, a 
new weapon for the dwarven arsenal.  Tomes are also used for the creation of capacitors at the advanced alchemy lab, which are used in dart launcher construction.  The apprentice level tome can 
be unlocked either through research or by reverse-engineering a rare "bioelectric capacitor," which you might happen to find if a certain special creature dies nearby.  Researching and advancing 
to the journeyman level allows you to mount a bayonet on the dart launcher, giving it a more useful melee attack.  Advancing again to master level allows you to mount additional capacitors onto 
the bayonet dart launcher, increasing its ranged power.

The advanced alchemy lab only unlocks these advances and manufactures some of their components.  Actual upgrading of weapons takes place at the prototype workbench, which will be discussed very 
shortly.


--

[5.4] THE SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY

Created from some various furniture and a sorting algorithm from the advanced alchemy lab, this workshop uses the tomes produced in advanced alchemical research to transcribe blueprints for the 
actual upgrading of weapons.  The scientific library can also create the necessary items for all of the tier two tech tree workshops, in case you happened to miss one or two on the way here.

--

[5.5] THE PROTOTYPE WORKBENCH

Using the blueprints from the scientific library and a handful of components (which vary depending on the weapon), this workshop upgrades crossbows, manufactures and upgrades magnetic dart 
launchers, and manufactures magnetic darts.  Magnetic darts must be made of a ferromagnetic metal - namely iron, steel, damascus steel, cobalt, or mithril.  Tungsten and voidshard can also be 
used for magnetic darts, but iron is required in the production of darts of these two metals.  Magnetic darts are produced in stacks of sixty.

-------------


[5.0] TIER FOUR - MECHANICAL CONSTRUCTS AND ARMOR UPGRADES

Tier four of the tech tree is unlocked by successfully researching magnetic projectiles at the advanced alchemy lab.  This allows the construction of capacitors at the prototype workbench, which
are used in the construction of tier four buildings.

---

[5.1] THE MECHANIZED DEFENSE LABORATORY

The first building in tier four of the tech tree is the mechanized defense laboratory.  This workshop allows for the assembly of parts to be used for creating dwarven 
mechanical constructs.  Final assembly of some of these constructs also takes place here (except for spiders - which use the dwarven spider deployment hub for assembly).

Research for advanced constructs is also performed here.  Right now (0.19a), the only available research is to unlock the "mantis" construct.  Once unlocked, the tome produced in 
this reaction can be taken to the scientific library, where it can be used to transcribe schematics used in mantis assembly.

NOTE: ALL dwarven constructs assembled at the mechanized defense laboratory require a slimer to be next to the workshop during final assembly.  Make sure to pen/pasture one before attempting to 
create a construct here, as the slimer's neurological capacity is required for the new construct's control mechanism!  I know I'm being redundant, but spiders are constructed at deployment 
hubs, so this warning does not apply to them.

---

[5.2] THE SPIDER DEPLOYMENT HUB

A tiny building placed at the site where you want to deploy a spider construct.  The final assembly of spider constructs takes place here.


NOTE: For technical reasons, a dwarf that has transformed as part of the ritual tree's ceremony reactions will be unable to successfully assemble a spider construct.  Bear this in mind, 
and use your manager screen to make sure you're not wasting any efforts!

---

[5.3] CONSTRUCTS

The first construct available is the "spider" - a small, eight-legged metal frame with a control module, exhaust pipe, and mechanical eye.  All of these components must be constructed and then 
brought together for final assembly at a spider deployment hub - the result being a fully functional dwarven bronze spider, which functions as a friendly animal and will fight off enemies 
until it breaks.  There is currently no way to re-assemble a broken spider, but this is a planned future tech advancement. 

Once researched, the "mantis" is the second available construct.  It is a six-legged construct, slightly larger than a spider, with two bladed stingers on its front limbs.  
Utilizing a slimer's innate brainpower rather than the spider's crude AI system, the mantis can accept pen/pasture designations.

After a second level of research is completed, the "tarantula" becomes the third available construct.  Using the spider's chassis and stronger materials, 
it is a larger construct that can accept pen/pasture designations and attack enemies with its metal jaws.  The mithril version of this construct is 
more expensive, but has the ability to inject poison into enemies, which can cause nausea and/or very short-duration paralysis.

---

[5.4] IMPORTED COMPONENTS

As you will probably discover, constructs take a lot of resources to produce.   Construct assembly is not always successful, either.  Therefore, it might be appealing to turn to the meowkin for 
some assitance.  In exchange for your trade goods, the meowkin will sell "mech parts caches" to you, which can be opened at the mechanized defense laboratory for a random assortment of parts.  
Trading with the meowkin can greatly augment your construct production capabilities, especially if bronze or iron is in short supply.

---
